> Daptomycin undergoes little to no Cytochrome P450 (CYP450)
-mediated metabolism
. It is unlikelythat daptomycin will inhibit or induce the metabolism of  medicinal products
 metabolised by the P45
0system.Interaction studies f or CUBICIN were performed  with AZTREONAM, TOBRAMYCIN, warf arin and PROBENECID.Daptomycin had no ef f ect on the pharmacokinetics of  WARFARIN or PROBENECID, nor did these medicinalproduct s alter the pharmacokinetics of  daptomycin. The pharmacokinetics of  daptomycin were
 notsignif icantly altered by AZTREONAM.Although small changes in the pharmacokinetics of daptomycin and TOBRAMYCIN were observed duringco-administr ation by intravenous inf usion over a 
30-minute period using a  CUBICIN dose of  2  mg/kg,the changes were not statistically signif icant. The interaction between daptomycin and tobramycinwith an approved
 dose of CUBICIN is unknown.
 Caution is warranted when CUBICIN is co-administ eredwith tobra mycin.8Experience with the concomitant administration of  CUBICIN and wa rfarin is limited. Studies of  Cubicinwith anticoagulants other than warf arin have not been conducted. Anticoagulant activity in patientsreceiving CUBICIN  and warf arin should be monitored f or the f irst several days af ter therapy with
> CUBICIN is initiated.There is limited experience regarding concomitant administration of  daptomycin with other medicinalproducts that may trigger myopathy
 (e.g. HMG -Co
> CUBICIN  unless the bene fits of  concomitant administration outweigh the risk. If  co
-administrationcannot be avoided, CPK levels should be measured more f requently than once weekly and patientsshould be closely monitored for any signs or symptoms that might represent myopathy. Seesections 4.4
, 4.8 and 5.3.Daptomycin is primarily cleared by renal f iltration and so plasma levels may be increased duringco-administration with medicinal products
 that reduce renal f iltration (e.g. NSAIDs and CO X-2inhibitors). In addition, there is a potential f or a pharmacodynamic interaction to occur duringco-administration due to additive renal ef f ects. Theref ore, caution is advised when daptomyc in isco-admin istered with any other medicinal product known to reduce renal f iltration.During post–marketing surveillance, cases of  interf erence between daptomycin and particular reagentsused in some assays of  prothrombin time/international normalised ratio (PT/INR)
 have been reported.This interf erence led to a  f alse  prolongation of  PT and elevation of INR. If  unexplained abnormalitiesof  PT/INR are observed in patients taking daptomycin, consideration should be given to a possible invitro  interaction  with the laboratory test
. The possibility of erroneous results may be minimised bydrawing samples for PT or INR testing near the time of  trough plasma concentrations of daptomycin(see se ction  4.4).

