> In animal experiments NSAIDs including SALICYLIC ACID  caused reduction of tubular methotrexate secretion and consequently increased its toxic effects. However, in clinical studies, where NSAIDs and SALICYLIC ACID were given as concomitant medicinal products to patients with rheumatoid arthritis, no increase of adverse reactions was observed. Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with such medicinal products  can be continued during low -dose methotrexate therapy but only under close medical supervision. 
> Patients taking potentially hepatotoxic and haematoxic  medicinal products  during methotrexate therapy (e.g. LEFLUNOMIDE, AZATHIOPRINE, sulphasalazine, and retinoids) should be closely  monitored 10 for possibly increased hepatotoxicity. 
> Administration of additional haematotoxic medicinal products  (e.g. METAMIZOLE) increases the probability of severe haematoxic effects of methotrexate.
> One should be aware of pharmacokinetic interactions between methotrexate , anticonvulsant  medicinal product s (reduced methotrexate blood levels), and 5-FLUOROURACIL  (increased t ½ of 
5--FLUOROURACIL).  
> Salicylates, PHENYLBUTAZONE, PHENYTOIN, barbiturates, tranquillisers, oral contraceptives, TETRACYCLINES, amidopyrine derivatives, SULFONAMIDES and p- AMINOBENZOIC ACID displace methotrexate from serum albumin binding and thus increase bioavailability  (indirect dose increase).  PROBENECID and mild ORGANIC ACIDS may also reduce tubular methotrexate secretion, and thus cause indirect dose elevations, too.
> ANTIBIOTICS , like penicillin, glycopeptides, SULFONAMIDES, CIPROFLOXACIN and CEFALOTIN can, in individual cases, reduce the renal clearance of methotrexate, so that increased serum concentrations of methotrexate with simultaneous haematological and gastro- intestinal toxicity may occur.  Oral ANTIBIOTICS  such as TETRACYCLINES, CHLORAMPHENICOL and non- absorbable broad -spectrum ANTIBIOTICS may reduce intestinal methotrexate absorption or interfere with the enterohepatic circulation , due to inhibition of the intestinal flora or suppression of bacterial metabolism. 
> COLESTYRAMINE  can increase the non -renal elimination of methotrexate by interrupting the enterohepatic circulation. Delayed methotrexate clearance should be considered in combination with other cytostatic  medicinal products. 
> Co-administration of proton -pump inhibitors  such as OMEPRAZOLE or PANTOPRAZOLE can lead to interactions: concomitant administration of methotrexate and OMEPRAZOLE has led to a delay in the renal elimination of methotrexate. In combination with PANTOPRAZOLE, inhibited renal elimination of the 7-hydroxymethotrexate metabolite, with myalgia and shivering, was reported in one case. 
> Co-administration of medicinal products which cause folate deficiency (e.g. sulphonamides, TRIMETHOPRIM- sulphamethoxazole) can lead to increased methotrexate toxicity. Particular caution should therefore also be exercised in the presence of existing FOLIC ACID deficiency. On the other hand, concomitant administration of folinic acid containing drugs or of vitamin preparations, which contain FOLIC ACID or derivatives, may impair methotrexate efficacy. 
> The use of NITROUS OXIDE  potentiate s the effect of methotrexate on folate metabolism , yielding increased toxicity such as severe unpredictable myelosuppression and stomatitis. Whilst this effect can be reduced by administering CALCIUM folinate, the concomitant use of NITROUS OXIDE and methotrexate should be avoided. 
> Though the combination of methotrexate and SULFASALAZINE may enhance methotrexate efficacy by 11 SULFASALAZINE related inhibition of FOLIC ACID synthesis, and thus may lead to an increased risk of adverse reactions, these were only observed in single patients within several trials. 
> CYCLOSPORINE may potentiate methotrexate efficacy and toxicity. There is an increased risk of renal dysfunction. In addition, there is a biological plausibility of excessive immunosuppression and its associated complications. 
> Methotrexate may reduce THEOPHYLLINE  clearance. Therefore, THEOPHYLLINE blood levels should be monitored under concomitant methotrexate administration.  Excessive consumption of beverages containing CAFFEINE or THEOPHYLLINE  (coffee, soft drinks containing CAFFEINE, black tea) should be avoided during methotrexate therapy since the efficacy of methotrexate may be reduced due to possible interaction between methotrexate and methylxanthines at ADENOSINE receptors. 
> The combined use of methotrexate and LEFLUNOMIDE  may increase the risk for pancytopenia. Methotrexate leads to increased plasma levels of mercaptopurines. Therefore, the combination of these may require dose adjustment. 
> RADIOTHERAPY during use of methotrexate can increase the risk of soft tissue or bone necrosis. 
> On account of its possible effect on the immune system, methotrexate can falsify vaccinal and test results (immunological procedures to record the immune reaction). During methotrexate therapy concurrent vaccination with live VACCINES must not be carried out (see sections  4.3 and 4.4). 
