> Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.Concomi tant administration of tigecycline and WARFARIN (25 mg single -dose) to healthy subjects resulted in a decrease in clearance of R -WARFARIN and S -WARFARIN by 40 % and 23 %, and an increase in AUC by 68 % and 29 %, respectively. The mechanism of this interact ion is still not elucidated. Available data does not suggest that this interaction may result in significant INR changes. However, since tigecycline may prolong both prothrombin time ( PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time 6(a
> PTT ), the relevant coagulation tests should be closely monitored when tigecycline is co-administered with anticoagulants (see section 4.4 ). WARFARIN did not affect the pharmacokinetic profile of tigecycline.Tigecycline is not extensively metabolised. Therefore, clearance o f tigecycline is not expected to be affected by active substances that inhibit or induce the activity of the CYP450 isoforms. In vitro , tigecycline is neither a competitive inhibitor nor an irreversible inhibitor of CYP450 ENZYMES (see section 5.2 ).Tigec ycline in recommended dosage did not affect the rate or extent of absorption, or clearance of DIGOXIN (0.5 mg followed by 0.25 mg daily) when administered in healthy adults. DIGOXIN did not affect the pharmacokinetic profile of tigecycline. Therefore, no d osage adjustment is necessary when tigecycline is administered with DIGOXIN.Concurrent use of ANTIBIOTICS with oral contraceptives may r ender oral contraceptives less effective.Concomitant use of tigecycline and CALCINEURIN INHIBITORS such as TACROLIMUS or CYCLOSPORINE may lead to an increase in serum trough concentration sof the CALCINEURIN INHIBITORS . Therefore, serum concentrations ofthe calcineurin inhibitor should be monitored during treatment with tigecycline to avoid drug toxicity.Based on an in vitro study tigecycline is a P -gp substrate. Co -administration of P -gp inhibitors (e.g., KETOCONAZOLE or CYCLOSPORINE) or P -gpinducers (e.g., rifampicin) could affect the pharmacokinetics of tigecycline (see section 5.2).

