> No formal drug interaction studies have been performed. Clinically significant interactions between trastuzumab  and the concomitant medicinal products used in clinical trials have not been observed. 9  Effect of trastuzumab on  the pharma cokinetics of OTHER ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENTS
> GA) performed in male and female Japanese patients with advanced  gastric cancer to study the pharmacokinetics of CAPECITABINE and CISPLATIN when used with or without trastuzumab . The results of this substudy suggested that the expos ure to the bioactive metabolites (e.g. 5-FU) of CAPECITABINE was not affected by concur rent use of CISPLATIN or by  concurrent use of  CISPLATIN plus trastuzumab . Howe ver, ca pecitabine itself show ed higher conce ntrations and a longer half-life when combined  with trastuzumab . The data also suggested  that the phar macokinetics of CISPLATIN were not affected by concurrent use of CAPECITABINE or by concurrent use of c apecitabine plus trastuzumab .
> By comparison  of simulated serum trastuzumab concentrations after trastuzumab  monoth erapy (4 mg/kg loa ding/2 mg/kg q1w intravenous infusion ) and obs erved serum conce ntrations in Japanese women with HER2 -positive MBC ( study JP1600 3) no evidence  of a PK effect of concurrent administration of DOCETAXEL on the phar macokinetics of trastuzumab was found. 
> Comparison of PK results from two Phase  II studies (BO15935 and  M77004) and one Phase III study (H0648 g) in which patients were  treated concomitantly with trastuzumab  and PACLITAXEL and two Phase II studies in which trastuzumab  was ad ministered as monotherapy  (W016229 and  MO16982),  in wo men with HER2-positive MBC indicates that individual and mean trastuzumab trough serum conce ntrations varied  within and  across studies but there was no clear effect of the conco mitant administration of PACLITAXEL on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab. Comparison  of trastuzumab PK data from Study  M77004 in  which wo men with HER2 -positive MBC w ere treated conco mitantly with trastuzumab , PACLITAXEL and doxoru bicin to trastuzumab PK  data in studies w here trastuzumab  was administered as monoth erapy (H0649 g) or in  combination with anthracycline plus cyclopho sphamide or PACLITAXEL (H064 8g), suggested  no effect of doxoru bicin and PACLITAXEL on the phar macokinetics of trastuzumab.
> The administration of concomitant ANASTROZOLE did not appear to influence the pharmacokinetics  of trastuzumab.
