> QUINIDINE and other CYP2D6 inhibitors  In a clinical trial in healthy subjects, a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6 (QUINIDINE) increased aripiprazole AUC by 107%, while Cmax was unchanged. The AUC and C max of dehydro-aripiprazole, the active metabolite, decreased by 32% and 47% , respectively . Aripiprazole  dose should be reduced to approximately one -half of its prescribed dose when concomitant administration of a ripiprazole with QUINIDINE occurs. Other strong inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as FLUOXETINE and PAROXETINE, may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose reductions should therefore be applied. 
> KETOCONAZOLE and other CYP3A4 inhibitors  In a clinical trial in healthy subjects, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 (KETOCONAZOLE) increased aripiprazole AUC and C max by 63% and 37%, respectively. The AUC and C max of dehydro-aripiprazole increased by 77% and 43%, respectively. In CYP2D6 poor metabolisers, concomitant use of strong  inhibitors of CYP3A4 may result in higher plasma concentrations of aripiprazole compared to that in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. When considering concomitant administration of KETOCONAZOLE or other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors with aripiprazole, potential benefits should outweigh the potential risks to the patient. When concomitant administration of KETOCONAZOLE with a ripiprazole occurs, a ripiprazole dose should be reduced to approximately one -half of its prescribed dose. Other strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ITRACONAZOLE and HIV PROTEASE INHIBITORS, may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose reductions should therefore be applied  (see section  4.2). Upon discontinuation of the CYP2D6 or CYP 3A4 inhibitor, the dosage of aripiprazole  should be increased to the level prior to the initiation of the concomitant therapy.  When weak inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g. DILTIAZEM) or CYP2D6 (e.g. ESCITALOPRAM) are used concomitantly with aripiprazole, modest increases in plasma aripiprazole concentrations may  be expected.
> CARBAMAZEPINE and other CYP3A4 inducers  Following concomitant administration of CARBAMAZEPINE, a strong  inducer of CYP3A4, and oral aripiprazole to patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, the geometric means of Cmax and AUC for aripiprazole were 68% and 73% lower, respectively, compared to when aripiprazole (30  mg) was administered alone. Similarly, for dehydro -aripiprazole the geometric means of C max and AUC after CARBAMAZEPINE co -administration were 69% and 71% lower, respectively, than those following treatment with aripiprazole alone.  Aripiprazole dose should be doubled when concomitant administration of aripiprazole occurs with ca rbamazepine. Concomitant administration of aripiprazole and other  inducers of CYP3A4 (such as rifampicin, RIFABUTIN, PHENYTOIN, PHENOBARBITAL, PRIMIDONE, EFAVIRENZ, NEVIRAPINE and ST. JOHN'S WORT) may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose increases should therefore be applied. Upon discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers, the dosage of aripiprazole should be reduced to the recommended dose. 
