> QUINIDINE and other CYP2D6 inhibitors  In a clinical trial in healthy subjects, a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6 (QUINIDINE) increased aripiprazole AUC by 107%, while C max was unchanged. The AUC and C max of dehydro- aripiprazole, the acti ve metabolite, d ecreased by 32% and 47% , respectively . Aripiprazole  dose should be reduced to approximately one -half of its prescribed dose when concomitant administration of aripiprazole with QUINIDINE occurs. Other strong  inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as fl uoxetine and PAROXETINE, may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose reductions should therefore be applied. 
> KETOCONAZOLE and other CYP3A4 inhibitors  In a clinical trial in healthy subjects, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 (KETOCONAZOLE) increased aripiprazole AUC and C max by 63% and 37%, respective ly. The AUC and C max of dehydro- aripiprazole increased by 77% and 43%, respectively. In CYP2D6 poor metabolisers, concomitant use of strong  inhibitors of CYP3A 4 may result in higher plasma concentrations of aripiprazole compared to that in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. When considering concomitant administration of KETOCONAZOLE or other strong C YP3A4 inhibitors with aripiprazole , potential benefits should outwe igh the potential risks to the patient. When concomitant administrat ion of ketocona zole with aripiprazole occurs, aripiprazole  dose should be reduced to approximately one -half of its prescribed dose. Other strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ITRACONAZOLE and HIV PROTEASE INHIBITORS, may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose reductions should therefore be applied (see section 4.2) .
> When weak inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g. DILTIAZEM) or CYP2D6 (e.g. ESCITALOPRAM ) are used concomitantly with aripiprazole , modest increases in plasma aripiprazole concentrations may be expected. 
> CARBAMAZEPINE and other CYP3A4 inducers  Following concomitant administration of CARBAMAZEPINE, a strong inducer of CYP3A4, and oral aripiprazole to patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, the g eometric means of  Cmax and AUC for aripiprazole were 68% and 73% lower, respectively, co mpared to when aripiprazole (30 mg) was administered alone. Similarly, for dehydro -aripiprazole the geometric means of C max and AUC after CARBAMAZEPINE co -administratio n were 69% and 71% lower, respectively, than those following treatment with aripiprazole alone. 
> Aripiprazole dose should be doubled when concomitant administration of aripiprazole occurs with CARBAMAZEPINE. Concomitant administration of aripiprazole and other  inducers of CYP3A4 (such as rifampicin, RIFABUTIN, PHENYTOIN, PHENOBARBITAL, PRIMIDONE, EFAVIRENZ, NEVIRAPINE and St. John ’s 10 Wort) may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose increases should therefore be applied. Upon discontinuation of strong CYP3A4  inducers, the dosage of aripi prazole should be reduced to the recommended dose. 
