> The information in this section is based on binding affinity between SUGAMMADEX and other medicinal products, non -clinical experiments, clinical studies and sim ulations using a model taking into account the pharmacodynamic effect of neuromuscular blocking agents and the pharmacokinetic interaction between neuromuscular blocking agents and SUGAMMADEX. Based on these data, no clinically significant pharmacodynamic interaction with other medicinal products is ex pected, with exception of the following:  For TOREMIFENE and FUSIDIC ACID displacement interactions could not be excluded (no clinically relevant 7  capturing interactions are expected).  For hormonal contraceptive s a clinically relevant capturing interaction c ould not be excluded (no displacement interactions are expected). 
> Due to the administration of SUGAMMADEX, certain medicinal products could become less effective due to a lowering of the (free) plasma concentrations. If such a situation is observed, the clinician is advised to consider the re -administr ation of the medicinal product, the administration of a therapeutically equivalent medicinal product (preferably from a different chemical class) and/or non - pharmacological interventions as appropriate .
> Hormonal contraceptives:  The interaction between 4  mg/kg SUGAMMADEX and a progestogen was predicted to lead to a decrease in progestogen exposure (34% of AUC) similar to the decrease seen when a daily dose of an oral contraceptive is taken 12  hours to o late, which might lead to a reduction in effectiveness . For oestrogens, the effect is expected to be lower. Therefore , the administration of a bolus dose of SUGAMMADEX is considered to be equivalent to one missed daily dose of oral contraceptive steroids  (either combined or progestogen only). If SUGAMMADEX is  administered at the same day as an oral contraceptive is taken reference is made to missed dose advice in the package leaflet of the oral contraceptive. In the case of non-oral hormonal contraceptiv es, the patient must use an additional non hormonal contr aceptive method for the next 7  days and refer to the advice in the package leaflet of the medicinal product. 
