> In vivo studies Population pharmacokinetic analysis of clinical trial data indicated a reduction in sildenafil clearance when co -administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as KETOCONAZOLE, ERYTHROMYCIN, CIMETIDINE). Although no increased incidence of adverse events was observed in these patients, when sildenafi l is administered concomitantly with CYP3A4 inhibitors, a starting dose of 25 mg should be considered. 
> Co-administration of the HIV protease inhibitor RITONAVIR, which is a highly potent P450 inhibitor, at steady state (500  mg twice daily) with sildenafil  (100 mg single dose) resulted in a 300 % (4 -fold) increase in sildenafil C max and a 1,000 % (11 -fold) increase in sildenafil plasma AUC. At 24  hours, the plasma levels of sildenafil were still approximately 200  ng/m
> 6 Co-administration of the HIV protease inhibitor SAQUINAVIR, a CYP3A4 inhibitor, at steady state  (1200  mg three times a day) with sildenafil (100  mg single dose) resulted in a 140 % increase in  sildenafil C max and a 210 % increase in sildenafil AUC. Sildenafil had no effect on SAQUINAVIR  pharmacokinetics (see section 4.2). Stronger CYP3A4 inhibitors such as KETOCONAZOLE and  ITRACONAZOLE would be expected to have greater effects. 
> When a single 100 mg dose of sildenafil was administered with ERYTHROMYCIN, a moderate CYP3A4  inhibitor, at steady state (500  mg twice daily for 5 days), there was a 182  % increase in sildenafil  systemic exposure (AUC). In normal healthy male volunteers, there was no evidence of an effect of AZITHROMYCIN (500 mg daily for 3 days) on the AUC, Cmax, tmax, elimination rate constant, or  subsequent half -life of sildenafil or its princip al circulating metabolite. CIMETIDINE (800  mg), a  cytochrome P450 inhibitor and non-specific CYP3A4 inhibitor, caused a 56  % increase in plasma sildenafil concentrations when co -administered with sildenafil (50  mg) to healthy volunteers. 
> GRAPEFRUIT JUICE is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 gut wall metabolism and may give rise to modest  increases in plasma levels of sildenafil. 
> Although specific interaction studies were not conducted for all medicinal products, population pharmacokinetic analysis showed no effect of concomitant treatment  on sildenafil pharmacokinetics when grouped as CYP2C9 inhibitors (such as TOLBUTAMIDE, WARFARIN, PHENYTOIN), CY P2D6 inhibitors (such as SELECTIVE SEROTONIN REUPTAKE INHIBITORS, tricyclic ANTIDEPRESSANTS), thiazide and related DIURETICS, loop and POTASSIUM sparing DIURETICS, angiotensin converting ENZYME INHIBITORS, CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS, beta-adrenoreceptor anta gonists or inducers of CYP450 metabolism (such as rifampicin, barbiturates). In a study of healthy male volunteers, co -administration of the endothelin antagonist, BOSENTAN, (an inducer of CYP3A4 [moderate], CYP2C9 and possibly of CYP2C19) at steady state (125 mg twice a day) with sildenafil at steady state (80 mg three times a day) resulted in 
62.6% and 55.4% decrease in sildenafil AUC and Cmax, respectively. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as RIFAMPIN, is expected to cause greater decreases in plasma concentrations of sildenafil. 
> NICORANDIL is a hybrid of POTASSIUM channel activator and nitrate. Due to the nitrate component it has the potential to result in a serious interaction with sildenafil.
> RIOCIGUAT: Preclinical studies showed additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when PDE5 inhibitors were combined with RIOCIGUAT. In clinical studies, RIOCIGUAT has been shown to augment the hypotensive effects of PDE5 inhibitors. There was no evidence of favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied. Concomitant use of RIOCIGUAT with PDE5 inhibitors, including sildenafil, is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  7  Concomitant administration of sildenafil to pa tients taking alpha -blocker therapy may lead to  symptomatic hypotension in a few susceptible individuals. This is most likely to occur within 4  hours post sildenafil dosing (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). In three specific drug-drug interaction studies, the alpha-blocker DOXAZOSIN (4  mg and 8 mg) and sildenafil (25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg) were administered simultaneously to patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) stabilized on DOXAZOSIN therapy.  In these study populations, mean additional reductions of supine blood pressure of 7/7 mm
> Sildenafil (50  mg) did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by acetyl SALICYLIC ACID  (150 mg).
> In healthy male volunteers, sildenafil at steady state (80 mg t.i.d.) resulted in a 49.8% increase in BOSENTAN AUC and a 42% increase in BOSENTAN Cmax (125 mg b.i.d.). 
