> Use of medic inal products that induce the activity of CYP2C19 would be expected to result in increased drug levels of the active metabolite of CLOPIDOGREL and might potentiate the bleeding risk. As a precaution concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers should be disc ouraged (see section 4.5). 
> Cross -reactions among thienopyridines  Patients should be evaluated for history of hypersensitivity to thienopyridines (such as CLOPIDOGREL, TICLOPIDINE, PRASUGREL) since cross -reactivity among thienopyridines has been reported (see section 
4.8). Thienopyridines may cause mild to severe allergic reactions such as rash, angioedema, or haematological cross -reactions such as thrombocytopaenia and neutropaenia. Patients who had developed a previous allergic reaction and/or haematological reaction to on e thienopyridine may have an increased risk of developing the same or another reaction to another thienopyridine. Monitoring for signs of hypersensitivity in patients with a known allergy to thienopyridines is advised. 
> Oral anticoagulants: the concomitant administration of CLOPIDOGREL with oral anticoagulants is not recommended since it may increase the intensity of bleedings (see section 4.4). Although the administra tion of CLOPIDOGREL 75 mg/day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S -WARFARIN or International Normalised Ratio (INR) in patients receiving long -term WARFARIN therapy, coadministration of CLOPIDOGREL with WARFARIN increases the risk of bleeding because o f independent effects on hemostasis. 
> Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors : CLOPIDOGREL should be used with caution in patients who receive concomitant glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (see section 4.4). 
> Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) : ASA did not modify the clop idogrel -mediated inhibition of ADP -induced platelet aggregation, but CLOPIDOGREL potentiated the effect of ASA on collagen -induced platelet aggregation. However, concomitant administration of 500  mg of ASA twice a day for one day did not significantly incr ease the prolongation of bleeding time induced by CLOPIDOGREL intake. A pharmacodynamic interaction between CLOPIDOGREL and acetylsalicylic acid is possible, leading to increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use should be undertaken with cautio n (see section  4.4). However, CLOPIDOGREL and ASA have been administered together for up to one year (see section  5.1).
> HEPARIN : in a clinical study conducted in healthy subjects, CLOPIDOGREL did not necessitate modification of the HEPARIN dose or alter the effect of HEPARIN on coagulation. Co -administration of HEPARIN had no effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation induced by CLOPIDOGREL. A pharmacodynamic interaction between CLOPIDOGREL and HEPARIN is possible, leading to increased risk of  bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4). 
> Thrombolytics : the safety of the concomitant administration of CLOPIDOGREL, fibrin or non -fibrin specific thrombolytic agents and heparins was assessed in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The incidence of clinically significant bleeding was similar to that observed when thrombolytic agents and HEPARIN are co -administered with ASA (see section 4.8). 
> NSAIDs : in a clinical study conducted in healthy volunteer s, the concomitant administration of CLOPIDOGREL and NAPROXEN increased occult gastrointestinal blood loss. However, due to the lack of interaction studies with other NSAIDs it is presently unclear whether there is an increased risk of gastrointestinal ble eding with all NSAIDs. Consequently, NSAIDs including Cox -2 inhibitors and CLOPIDOGREL should be co -administered with caution (see section 4.4). 
> SSRIs : since SSRIs affect platelet activation and increase the risk of bleeding, the concomitant administratio n of SSRIs with CLOPIDOGREL should be undertaken with caution. 
> Inducers of CYP2C19  Since CLOPIDOGREL is metabolised to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19, use of medicinal products that induce the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in increased drug levels of the active metabolite of CLOPIDOGREL. 
> Rifampicin strongly induces CYP2C19, resulting in both an increased level of CLOPIDOGREL active metabolite and platelet inhibition, which in particular might potentiate the risk of bleeding. As a precaution, concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers should be discouraged (see section 4.4). 
> PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS (PPI):   OMEPRAZOLE 80 mg once daily administered either at the same time as CLOPIDOGREL or with 12 hours between the administrations of the two drugs decreased the exposure of the active metabolite by 45% (loading dose) and 40% (maintenance dose). The decrease was associated with a 39% (loading dose) and 21% (maintenance dose) reduction of inhibition of platelet aggregation. ESOMEPRAZOLE is expected to give a similar interaction with clopi dogrel. 
> Inconsistent data on the clinical implications of this pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD)  interaction in terms of major cardiovascular events have been reported from both observational and clinical studies. As a precaution, concomitant use of OMEPRAZOLE or esomepr azole should be discouraged (see section 4.4). 
> The plasma concentrations of the active metabolite was 20% reduced (loading dos e) and 14% reduced (maintenance dose) during concomitant treatment with PANTOPRAZOLE 80 mg once daily. This was associated with a reduction of the mean inhibition of platelet aggregation by 15% and 11%, respectively. These results indicate that CLOPIDOGREL  can be administered with PANTOPRAZOLE. 
> A significantly reduced platelet inhibition has been shown in HIV patients treated with RITONAVIR -or COBICISTAT -boosted ART. Although the clinical relevance of these findings is uncertain, there have been spontaneous reports of HIV -infected patients treated with RITONAVIR boosted ART, who have experienced re -occlusive events after de -obstruction or have suffered thrombotic events under a CLOPIDOGREL loading treatment s chedule. Average platelet inhibition can be decreased with concomitant use of CLOPIDOGREL and RITONAVIR. Therefore, concomitant use of CLOPIDOGREL with ART boosted therapies should be discouraged. 
> Other medicinal products:  A number of other clinical studies have been conducted with CLOPIDOGREL and other concomitant medicinal products to investigate the potential for pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions. No clinically significant pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when clop idogrel was co -administered with ATENOLOL, NIFEDIPINE, or both ATENOLOL and NIFEDIPINE. Furthermore, the pharmacodynamic activity of CLOPIDOGREL was not significantly influenced by the co-administration of PHENOBARBITAL, or oestrogen. 
> CYP2C8 substrate medicinal products: CLOPIDOGREL has been shown to increase REPAGLINIDE exposure in healthy volunteers. In vitro  studies have shown the increase in REPAGLINIDE exposure is due to inhibition of CYP2C 8 by the glucuronide metabolite of CLOPIDOGREL. Due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations, concomitant administration of CLOPIDOGREL and drugs primarily cleared by CYP2C8 metabolism (e.g., REPAGLINIDE, PACLITAXEL) should be undertaken with caution  (see section 
4.4).
> Apart from the specific medicinal product interaction information described above, interaction studies with CLOPIDOGREL and some medicinal products commonly administered in patients with atherothrombotic disease have not been performed . However, patients entered into clinical trials with CLOPIDOGREL received a variety of concomitant medicinal products including DIURETICS, beta blockers, ACEI, CALCIUM antagonists, cholesterol lowering agents, coronary vasodilators, antidiabetic agents (including insulin), antiepileptic agents, and GPIIb/IIIa antagonists without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. 
> ROSUVASTATIN : CLOPIDOGREL has been shown to increase ROSUVASTATIN exposure in patients by 2 -fold (AUC) and 1.3 -fold (C max) after administration of a 300 mg CLOPIDOGREL dose, and by 1.4 -fold (AUC) without effect  on C max after repeated administration of a 75 mg CLOPIDOGREL dose. 
