> CYP2C8 inhibitors  CYP2C8 plays an important role in the elimination of enzalutamide and in the formation of its active metabolite. Following oral administration  of the strong CYP2C8 inhibitor GEMFIBROZIL (600 mg twice daily) to healthy male subjects, the AUC of enzalutamide increased by 326% while Cmax of enzalutamide decreased by 18%. For the sum of unbound enzalutamide plus the unbound active metabolite, the AU C increased by 77% while C max decreased by 19%. Strong inhibitors (e.g. GEMFIBROZIL) of CYP2C8 are to be avoided or used with caution during enzalutamide treatment. If patients must be co -administered a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor, the dose of enzalutamide should be reduced to 80  mg once daily (see section 4.2). 
> CYP3A4 inhibitors  CYP3A4 plays a minor role in the metabolism of enzalutamide. Following oral administration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ITRACONAZOLE (200 mg once daily) to healthy male subjects, the AUC of enzalutamide increased by 41% while Cmax was unchanged. For the sum of unbound enzalutamide plus the unbound active metabolite, the AUC increased by 27% while C max was again unchanged. No dose adjustment is necessary when XTANDI is co -administere d with inhibitors of CYP3A4. 
> CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 inducers Following oral administration of the moderate CYP2C8 and strong CYP3A4 inducer RIFAMPIN (600 mg once daily) to healthy male subjects, the AUC of enzalutamide plus the active metabolite decreased by 
37% while Cmax remained unchanged. No dose adjustment is necessary when XTANDI is co -administered with inducers of CYP2C8 or CYP3A4. 
> Enzyme induction  Enzalutamide is a potent enzyme inducer and increases the synthesis of many ENZYMES and transporters; therefore, interaction with many common medicinal products that are substrates of ENZYMES or transporters is expected. The reduction in plasma concentrations can be substantial, and lead to lost or reduced clinical effect. There is also a risk of increased formation of active metabolites. ENZYMES that may be induced include CYP3A in the liver and gut, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and URIDINE 5' -diphospho- glucur onosyltransferase (UGTs - glucuronide conjugating ENZYMES). Some transporters may also be induced, e.g. multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2) and the organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B1 (OATP1B1). 
> In vivo  studies have shown that enzalutamide is a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and a moderate inducer of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Co-administration of enzalutamide (160 mg once daily) with single oral doses of sensitive CYP substrates in prostate cancer patients resulted in an 86% decrease in the AUC of MIDAZOLAM (CYP3A4 substrate), a 56% decrease in the AUC of S -WARFARIN (CYP2C9 substrate),  6 and a 70% decrease in the AUC of OMEPRAZOLE (CYP2C19 substrate). UGT1A1 may have been induced as well. In a clinical study in patients with metastatic CRPC, XTANDI (1 60 mg once daily) had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of intravenously administered DOCETAXEL (75 mg/m
2 by infusion every 3 weeks). The AUC of DOCETAXEL decreased by 12% [geometric mean ratio (GMR) = 0.882 (90% CI: 0.767, 1.02)]  while  Cmax decreased by 4% [GMR = 0.963 (90% CI: 
0.834, 1.11)] . 
> The full induction potential of enzalutamide may not occur until approximately 1 month after the start of treatment, when steady -state plasma concentrations of enzalutamide are reached, although some induction effects may be apparent earlier. Patients taking medicinal products that are substrates of CYP2B6, CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 or UGT1A1 should be evaluated for possible loss of pharmacological effects (or increase in effects in cases where active metabolites are formed) during the first  month of enzalutamide treatment and dose adjustment should be considered as appropriate. In consi deration of the long half -life of enzalutamide (5.8  days, see section  5.2), effects on ENZYMES may persist for one month or longer after stopping enzalutamide. A gradual dose reduction of the concomitant medicinal product may be necessary when stopping enz alutamide treatment. 
> CYP1A2 and CYP2C8 substrates  Enzalutamide (160 mg once daily) did not cause a clinically relevant change in the AUC or Cmax of CAFFEINE (CYP1A2 substrate) or PIOGLITAZONE (CYP2C8 substrate). The AUC of PIOGLITAZONE increased by 20% while C max decreased by 18%. The AUC and C max of CAFFEINE decreased by 11% and 4%,  respectively. No dose adjustment is indicated when a CYP1A2 or C YP2C8 substrate is co-administered with XTANDI .
> P-gp substrates  In vitro  data indicate that enzalutamide may be an inhibitor of the efflux transporter P -gp. A mild inhibitory effect of enzalutamide, at steady -state, on P -gp was observed in a study in pat ients with prostate cancer that received a single oral dose of the probe P -gp substrate DIGOXIN before and concomitantly with enzalutamide (concomitant administration followed at least 55  days of once daily dosing of 160  mg enzalutamide). The AUC and C max of DIGOXIN increased by 33% and 17%, respectively. Medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic range that are substrates for P -gp ( e.g.  7 COLCHICINE, DABIGATRAN ETEXILATE, DIGOXIN)  should be used with caution when administered concomitantly with XTANDI  and may require dose adjustment to maintain optimal plasma concentrations. 
> BCRP substrates  At steady -state, enzalutamide did not cause a clinically meaningful change in exposure to the probe breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) substrate ROSUVASTATIN in patients with prostate cancer that received a single oral dose of ROSUVASTATIN before and concomitantly with enzalutamide (concomitant administration followed at least 55  days of once daily dosing of 160  mg enzalutamide). The AUC of ROSUVASTATIN decreased by 14% while Cmax increased by 6%. No dose adjustment is necessary when a BCRP substrate is co -administered with XTANDI. 
> Medicinal products which prolong the QT interval  Since androgen deprivation treatment may prolong the QT interval, the concomitant use of XTANDI with medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval or medicinal products able to induce Torsade de point es such as class IA (e.g. QUINIDINE, DISOPYRAMIDE) or class III (e.g. AMIODARONE, SOTALOL, DOFETILIDE, IBUTILIDE) antiarrhythmic medicinal products, METHADONE, MOXIFLOXACIN, ANTIPSYCHOTICS, etc. should be carefully evaluated (see section 4.4). 
