> Effects of other medicinal products on posaconazole  Posaconazole is metabolised via UDP glucuronidation (phase 2 ENZYMES) and is a substrate for p-glycoprotein (P -gp) efflux in vitro. Therefore, inhibitors (e.g. VERAPAMIL, CICLOSPORIN, QUINIDINE, CLARITHROMYCIN, ERYTHROMYCIN, etc.) or inducers (e.g. rifampicin, RIFABUTIN, certain anticonvulsants, etc.) of these clearance pathways may increase or decrease posaconazole plasma concentrations, respectively. 
> RIFABUTIN  RIFABUTIN (300 mg once a day) decreased the C max (maximum plasma concentration) and AUC (area under the plasma concentration time curve) of posaconazole to 57 % and 51 %, respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and RIFABUTIN and similar inducers (e.g. rifampicin) should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. See also below regarding the effect of posaconazole on RIFABUTIN plasma levels. 
> EFAVIRENZ  EFAVIRENZ (400 mg once a day) decreased the Cmax and AUC of posaconazole by 45 % and 50 %, respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and EFAVIRENZ should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. 
> FOSAMPRENAVIR  Combining FOSAMPRENAVIR with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal infections is recommended.  Repeat dose administration of FOSAMPRENAVIR (700 mg twice daily x  
10 days) decreased the C max and AUC of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily on the  
1st day, 200 mg twice daily on the 2nd day, then 400 mg twice daily x 8 days) by 21 % and 23 %,  7 respectively. The effect of posaconazole on FOSAMPRENAVIR levels when FOSAMPRENAVIR is given with RITONAVIR is unknown. 
> PHENYTOIN  PHENYTOIN (200 mg once a day) decreased the C max and AUC of posaconazole by 41 % and 50 %, respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and PHENYTOIN and similar inducers (e.g. CARBAMAZEPINE, PHENOBARBITAL, PRIMIDONE) should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. 
> H2 receptor antagonists and PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS  Posaconazole plasma concentrations (C max and AUC) were reduced by 39 % when posaconazole was  administered with CIMETIDINE (400 mg twice a day) due to reduced absorption possibly secondary to a  decrease in gastric acid production. Co -administration of posaconazole with H2 receptor antagonists  should be avoided if possible. Similarly, administration of 400 mg posaconazole with ESOMEPRAZOLE (40 mg daily) decreased mean C max and AUC by 46 % and 32 %, respectively, compared to dosing with 400 mg posaconazole alone. Co -administration of posaconazole with PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS should be avoided if possible .
> Posaconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co -administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates may result in large increases in exposure to CYP3A4 substrates as exemplified by the effects on TACROLIMUS, SIROLIMUS, ATAZANAVIR and MIDAZOLAM below. Caution is advised during co - administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates administered intravenously and the dose of the CYP3A4 substrate may need to be reduced. If posaconazole is used concomitantly with CYP3A4 substrates that are administered orally, and for which an increase in plasma concentrations may be associated with unacceptable adverse reactions, plasma concentrations of the CYP3A4 substrate and/or adverse reactions should be closely monitored and the dose adjusted as needed. Several of the interaction studies were conducted in healthy volunteers in whom a higher exposure to posaconazole occurs compared to patients administered the same dose. The effect of posaconazole on CYP3A4 substrates in patients might be somewhat lower than that observed in healthy volunteers, and is expected to be variable between patients due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. The effect of co -administration with posaconazole on plasma levels of CYP3A4 substrates may also be variable within a patient, unless posaconazole is administered in a strictly standardised way with food,  given the large food effect on posaconazole exposure (see section 5.2). 
> TERFENADINE, ASTEMIZOLE, CISAPRIDE, PIMOZIDE, HALOFANTRINE and QUINIDINE (CYP3A4 substrates)  Co-administration of posaconazole and TERFENADINE, ASTEMIZOLE, CISAPRIDE, PIMOZIDE, HALOFANTRINE or QUINIDINE is contraindicated. Co -administration may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products, leading to QTc prolongation and rare occurrences of torsades de pointes (see section 4.3). 
> ERGOT ALKALOIDS  Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ERGOT ALKALOIDS (ERGOTAMINE and DIHYDROERGOTAMINE), which may lead to ergotism. Co -administration of posaconazole and ERGOT ALKALOIDS is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
> A reductase inhibitors metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. SIMVASTATIN, LOVASTATIN, and ATORVASTATIN)  Posaconazole may substantially increase plasma levels of HMG -Co
> 8 Vinca alkaloids  Most of the vinca alkaloids (e.g., VINCRISTINE and VINBLASTINE) are substrates of CYP3A4. Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with VINCRISTINE has been associated with serious adverse reactions (see section 4.4). Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of vinca alkaloids which may lead to neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions. Therefore, reserve azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including VINCRISTINE, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options. 
> RIFABUTIN  Posaconazole increased the C max and AUC of RIFABUTIN by 31 % and 72 %, respectively. Concomitant use of posaconazole and RIFABUTIN should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk (see also above regarding the effect of RIFABUTIN on plasma levels of posaconazole). If these medicinal products are co -administered, careful monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions related to increased RIFABUTIN levels (e.g. uveitis) is recommended. 
> SIROLIMUS  Repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily for 16 days) increased the C max  and AUC of SIROLIMUS (2 mg single dose) an average of 6.7 -fold and 8.9 -fold (range 
3.1 to 17.5 -fold), respectively, in healthy subjects. The effect of posaconazole on SIROLIMUS in patients is unknown, but is expected to be variable due to the variable posaconazole exposure in patients. Co - administration of posaconazole with SIROLIMUS is not recommended and should be avoided whenever possible. If it is considered that co -administration is unavoidable, then it is recommended that the dose of SIROLIMUS should be greatly reduced at the time of initiation of posaconazole therapy and that there should be very frequent monitoring of trough concentrations of SIROLIMUS in whole blood. SIROLIMUS concentrations should be measured upon initiation, during co -administration, and at discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, with SIROLIMUS doses adjusted accordingly. It should be noted that the relationship between SIROLIMUS trough concentration and AUC is changed during co - administration with posaconazole. As a result, SIROLIMUS trough concentrations that fall within the usual therapeutic range may result in sub -therapeutic levels. Therefore, trough concentrations that fall in the upper part of the usual therapeutic range should be targeted and careful attention should be paid to clinical signs and symptoms, laboratory parameters and tissue biopsies. 
> CICLOSPORIN  In heart transplant patients on stable doses of CICLOSPORIN, posaconazole oral suspension 200 mg once daily increased CICLOSPORIN concentrations requiring dose reductions. Cases of elevated CICLOSPORIN levels resulting in serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity and one fatal case of leukoencephalopathy, were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating treatment with posaconazole in patients already receiving CICLOSPORIN, the dose of CICLOSPORIN should be reduced (e.g. to about three quarters of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of CICLOSPORIN should be monitored carefully during co -administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole treatment, and the dose of CICLOSPORIN should be adjusted as necessary. 
> TACROLIMUS  Posaconazole increased C max and AUC of TACROLIMUS (0.05 mg/kg body weight single dose) by 121 % and 358 %, respectively. Clinically significant interactions resulting in hospitalisation and/or posaconazole discontinuation were reported in clinical efficacy studies. When initiating posaconazole treatment in patients already receiving TACROLIMUS, the dose of TACROLIMUS should be reduced (e.g. to about one third of the current dose). Thereafter blood levels of TACROLIMUS should be monitored carefully during co -administration, and upon discontinuation of posaconazole, and the dose of TACROLIMUS should be adjusted as necessary. 
> HIV PROTEASE INHIBITORS  As HIV PROTEASE INHIBITORS are CYP3A4 substrates, it is expected that posaconazole will increase plasma levels of these antiretroviral agents. Following co -administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily) with ATAZANAVIR (300 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects Cmax and AUC of ATAZANAVIR increased by an average of 2.6 -fold and 3.7 -fold (range 1.2 to 26 -fold), respectively. Following co -administration of posaconazole oral suspension (400 mg twice daily) with 9 ATAZANAVIR and RITONAVIR (300/100 mg once daily) for 7 days in healthy subjects C max and AUC of ATAZANAVIR increased by an average of 1.5 -fold and 2.5 -fold (range 0.9 to 4.1 -fold), respectively. The addition of posaconazole to therapy with ATAZANAVIR or with ATAZANAVIR plus RITONAVIR was associated with increases in plasma bilirubin levels. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to antiretroviral agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 is recommended during co-administration with posaconazole. 
> MIDAZOLAM and other benzodiazepines metabolised by CYP3A4  In a study in healthy volunteers posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg once daily for 10 days) increased the exposure (AUC) of intravenous MIDAZOLAM (0.05 mg/kg) by 83 %. In another study in healthy volunteers, repeat dose administration of posaconazole oral suspension (200 mg twice daily for 7 days) increased the C max and AUC of intravenous MIDAZOLAM (0.4 mg single dose) by an average of 1.3 - and 
