> Medicinal products e liminated through metaboli sm or active secretion  There are no data on the effects of AMIFAMPRIDINE on the metabolism or active secretion of other medicinal products. Thus, special care should be taken in patients undergoing concomitant treatment with medi cinal products eliminated t hrough metabolism or active secretion. Monitoring is advised when possible. The dose of the concomitantly given medicinal product should be adjusted if necessary. Concomitant use of medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic wi ndow is contraindicated (see section  4.3).
> Substances which are potent inhibitors of ENZYMES that metabolise medicinal products (see section  5.2) Potent cytochrome P450  (CYP 450) ENZYME INHIBITORS e.g. CIMETIDINE, KETOCONAZOLE are not likely to  inhibit the  metabolism of amifampridin e by human N -acetyl -transferase ENZYMES ( NATs) giving rise to increased AMIFAMPRIDINE exposure.  The results from the in vitro  CYP45 0 inhibition study indicate AMIFAMPRIDINE is unlikely to play a role in metabolic -based clinical d rug-drug interactions relat ed to inhibition of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4  metabolism of co -administered  medicinal  products . Regardless, patients should be closely monitored for adverse reactions when initiat ing treatment with a potent  enzyme or renal transporter inhibitor. If treatment with a potent inhibitor is discontinued, patients should be monitored for efficacy as an increase of AMIFAMPRIDINE dose may be necessary. 
> Based on the p harmacodynamic properties of  AMIFAMPRIDINE , the c oncomitant  use with sultopride or other medicinal products known to cause QT prolongation (e.g., DISOPYRAMIDE, cis apride, DOMPERIDONE, rifampicin and KETOCONAZOLE)  is contraindicat ed as this combination may lead to an enhanced risk of ventricular tachycardia, notably torsade de pointes (see sections 4.3 and 5.1).
> Medicinal products known to lower the epileptic threshold  The concomitant us e of AMIFAMPRIDINE and subs tances known to lower the epileptic threshold may lead to an increased risk of seizures. The decision to administer proconvulsant or epileptic -threshold lowering substances concomitantly should be carefully considered in the light  of the severity of the associated risks. These substances include most anti -depressants (tricyclic ANTIDEPRESSANTS, selective serotonin uptake inhibitors), neuroleptics (phenothiazines and butyrophenones), MEFLOQUINE, BUPROPION and TRAMADOL (see sections  4.4 and 5.1).
> Medicinal products with atropinic effects  The concomitant use of AMIFAMPRIDINE and medicinal products with atropinic effects may reduce the effect of both active substances and should be taken in to consideration. Medicinal products with 5 atropinic effects include tricyclic anti -depressants, most H1  atropinic anti -histamines, anticholinergic, anti-Parkinson medicinal products, atropinic antispasmodics, DISOPYRAMIDE, phenothiazine neuroleptics and cl ozapine.
> Medicinal product s with cholinergic effects  The concomitant use of AMIFAMPRIDINE  and medicinal products with cholinergic effects (e.g. direct or indirect cholinesterase inhibitors) may lead to an increased effect of both products and should be ta ken into consideration. 
> Non depolarising muscle relaxant acting medicinal products  The concomitant use of AMIFAMPRIDINE  and medicinal products with non-depolarising muscle relaxant effects (e.g. MIVACURIUM, pipercurium) may lead to a decreased effect of b oth products and should be taken into consideration. 
> Depolarising muscle relaxant acting medicinal products  The concomitant use of AMIFAMPRIDINE  and medicinal products with depolarising muscle relaxant effects (e.g. suxamethonium) may lead to a decreased e ffect of both products and should be taken into consideration. 
