> Interaction with alcoh ol In a pharm acokinetic and pharmacodynamic int eraction study between brivar acetam 200  mg single dose and ETHANOL  0.6 g/L contin uous infusion in healthy subjects, there was no pharma cokinetic interaction, but brivaracetam approxi mately doubled the effect o f alcohol on psychomotor function, attention an d memory. Intak e of brivaracetam with alcohol is no t recommended. 
> Brivaracetam plasma concentrations may increase  when coadministered with CYP2C19  strong inhibitors (e.g. FLUCONAZOLE, fluvo xamine), but the risk of a clinically  relevant CYP2C19-mediated interaction is considered to be low. Limited clinical dat a are available implying that co administration of cannabidi ol may increase  the plasma  exposure of brivarac etam, possibly thro ugh CYP2C19 inhibition, but the clinical relevance is uncertai n.
> Stron g enzyme i nducin g AEDs Brivaracetam plasma concentrations a re decreased wh en coadministered with strong en zyme inducing AEDs (CARBAMAZEPINE, PHENOBARBITAL, p henytoin) but no dose adjustme nt is required (see table 1). 
> In vitr o studies have shown that brivarace tam exhibits little or no inhibiti on of CYP450 isoforms except for CYP2C19. Brivaracetam may increase plasma  concentrations of medicinal pro ducts metabolised b y CYP2C19 (e.g. lanzoprazole, om eprazole, DIAZEPAM). When test ed in vitro brivaracetam did not in duce CYP1A1/2 but induced CYP3A4 a nd CYP2B6. No CYP3A4 induction was found in vivo (see midaz olam above). CY P2B6 induction has not been inve stigated in vivo and brivaracetam may decrease plas ma concentrations of medicinal  products metabolised by CYP2B6 (e. g. EFAVIRENZ). In vitro interactio n studies to determine the potential inhibitory effects on transporters concluded that there were no clini cally relevant effe cts, except for OAT3. In vitro, Brivaracetam inhibits OAT3 wit h a half maximal inhibitory concent ration 42-fold higher than the C max at the highest clinical dose. Brivaracetam 200mg/day may increase plasma  concentrations of medicinal pro ducts transported b y OAT3.
> Potential interactions between b rivaracetam (50 mg/day to 200  mg/day) and other AEDs were investigate d in a pooled analysis of plasma drug concentrations from a ll phase 2 -3 studies, in a population pharmacok inetic analysis of placebo-controlled phase 2 -3 clinical studies, and in dedicated drug-drug interaction studies (for the fol lowing AEDs: carbamazepin e, LAMOTRIGINE, PHENYTOIN an d TOPIRAMATE). The effect of the interac tions on the pla sma concentration is summarised in t able 1 (increase is indicated as “↑” and decre ase as “↓”, area under the pla sma concentration versus time curve as “AUC”, maximum observ ed concentration as Cmax). 
> 8 CARBAMAZEPINE  Brivaracetam is a moderate reversible inhibit or of epoxide hydrolase resulting in an increased concentration of c arbamazepine epoxide, an active  metabolite of carbam azepine. In controlled clinical studies, the CARBAMAZEPINE epoxide plasma concentration increased by a mean of 37  %, 62 % and 
98 % with little variability at brivaracetam doses of 50  mg/day, 100  mg/day and 200  mg/day respectively . No safety ris ks were observed. The re was no additive effect of brivaracetam and valproate on the AUC of CARBAMAZEPINE epoxide. 
