> GMP pathway. Therefore, administration of avanafil  to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate  or NITRIC OXIDE donor (such as amyl nitr ite) is contraindicated.  In a patient who has taken avanafil within 12  hours, where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life -threatening situation, the likelihood of a significant and potentially dangerous drop in blood pressure is increased.  In such circumstances, nitrates should still only be administered under close medical supervision with app ropriate h aemodynamic monitoring  (see section  4.3).
> Medicinal products reducing systemic blood pressure  As a vasodilator, avanafil may r educe systemic blood pressure. If SPEDRA is used in combination with another medicinal product  which reduces systemic blood pressure, the additive effects may result i n symptomatic hypotension (e.g.  dizziness, light -headedness, syncope or near -syncope).  In phase  III clinical trials no events of “hypotension” but occasional episod es of “dizziness ” were observed  (see section  4.8). One episode of “syncope” was observed in placebo and one episode on 100  mg of avanafil in phase III clinical trials .
> Alpha -blockers  Haemodynamic interactions with DOXAZOSIN and TAMSULOSIN were studied in healthy subjects in a two -period crossover -design trial.  In patients receiving stable DOXAZOSIN treatment, the placebo -subtracted mean maximum decreases in standing and supine systolic blood pressure following avanafil dosing were 2.5  mm
> In patients receiving stable TAMSULOSIN treatment, the placebo -subtracted mean maximum decreases in standing and supine systolic blood pressure following avanafil dosing were 3.6  mm
> ANTIHYPERTENSIVES  other than alpha -blockers  A clinical study was conducted to assess the effect of avanafil on the potentiation of the blood pressure -lowering effects of selected antihypertensive medicinal products  (AMLODIPINE and ENALAPRIL).  Results showed a mean maximum decrease in supine blood pressure of 2/3  mm
> Hg with AMLODIPINE when avanafil was co -administered.  There was a statistically significant difference in maximum decrease from baseline in supine diastolic blood pressure with ENALAPRIL and avanafil only, which returned to baseline 4  hours after the dose of avanafil.  In both cohorts, one subject ex perienced a  decrease in blood pressure without symptoms of hypotension, which resolved within 1 hour of onset.  Avanafil had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of AMLODIPINE, but AMLODIPINE increased the maximum and total exposure of avanafil by 28% and 60%, respec tively  (see section 4.4) .
> CYP3A4 Inhibitors  KETOCONAZOLE (400  mg daily), a selective and highly potent inhibitor o f CYP3A4, increased avanafil 
50 mg single -dose Cmax and exposure (AUC) equal to 3-fold and 14-fold respectively and prolonged the half -life of avanafil to approximately 9  hours.  RITONAVIR (600  mg twice daily), a highly potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, which also inhibit s CYP2C9, increased avanafil 50  mg single -dose C max and AUC equal to approximately 2 -fold and 13 -fold, and prolonged the half -life of avanafil to approximately 
9 hours.  Other s trong inhibitors o f CYP3A4 ( e.g. ITRACONAZOLE, VORICONAZOLE, CLARITHROMYCIN, NEFAZODONE , SAQUINAVIR, NELFINAVIR, INDINAVIR, ATAZANAVIR , and TELITHROMYCIN) would be expected to have similar effects.  Consequently, co-administration of avanafil with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated  (see section s 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4) .
> ERYTHROMYCIN (500 mg twic e daily) , a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor,  increased avanafil 200  mg single -dose C max and AUC equal to approximately 2 -fold and 3 -fold, respectively, and prolonged the half -life of avanafil to approximately 8 hours.  Other m oderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. AMPRENAVIR, APREPITANT, DILTIAZEM, FLUCONAZOLE, FOSAMPRENAVIR, and VERAPAMIL) would be expected to have similar effects.  Consequently,  the maximum re commended dose of avanafil  is 100  mg, not to exceed once every 
48 hours for pa tients taking concomitant moderate  CYP3A4 inhibitors  (see section  4.2).
> Although specific interactions have not been studied, other CYP3A4 inhibitors, including GRAPEFRUIT JUICE would likely increase avanafil exposure.  Patients should be advised to a void GRAPEFRUIT JUICE within 24  hours prior to taking avanafil .
> CYP3A4 substrate  AMLODIPINE (5  mg daily) increased avanafil 200  mg single -dose C max and AUC  by approximately 28% and 60%, respectively.  These exposure changes are not considered clinically significant.  There was no effect of a single dose of avan afil on AMLODIPINE plasma levels .
> Cytochrome P450 Inducers  The potential effect of CYP inducers , espe cially inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g.  BOSENTAN, CARBAMAZEPINE, EFAVIRENZ, PHENOBARBITAL and rifampicin ) on the pharmacokinetics and efficacy of avanafil has not been evaluated.  The concomitant use of avanafil and a CYP inducer  is not recommended as it may decrease the efficacy of avanafil .
> RIOCIGUAT  Preclinical studies showed additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when PDE5 inhibitors were combined with RIOCIGUAT. In clinical studies, RIOCIGUAT has shown to augment the hypotensive effects of PDE5 inhibitors. There was no evidence of favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied. Concomitant use of RIOCIGUAT with PDE5  inhibitors , including avanafil , is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
