> Hg (systolic/diastolic BP , mean arterial pressure [MAP]) compared to administration of vericiguat alone. No dose-dependent  trend was observed with the different SILDENAFIL doses. Co-administration was not associated with a clinica lly relevant effect on the exposure (AUC and Cmax) of either medicinal product. Concomitant use of vericiguat and PDE5 inhibitors, su ch as SILDENAFIL, has not been studied in patients with heart failure and is therefore not recomm ended due to the potential increased risk for symptomatic hypotension (see section 4.4).
> WARFARIN Administration of multiple doses of vericiguat (10 mg) once daily in healthy subjects did not alter the effect of a single dose of WARFARIN (25 mg) on prothrombin time and the activities of Factors II, VII, and X. Co-administration was not associated with a clinica lly relevant effect on the exposure (AUC and Cmax) of either medicinal product.  Combination of SACUBITRIL/VALSARTAN Addition of multiple doses of vericiguat (2.5 mg) to multiple doses of SACUBITRIL/VALSARTAN (97/103 mg) in healthy subjects had no additional effect on seated  blood pressure compared to administration of SACUBITRIL/VALSARTAN alone. Co-administration was not associated with a clinica lly relevant effect on the exposure (AUC and Cmax) of either medicinal product.  ORGANIC NITRATES Co-administration of multiple doses of vericiguat increased to 10 mg once daily did not significantly alter the seated blood pressure effects of short- and long-acting nitrates (NITROGLYCERIN spray and ISOSORBIDE MONONITRATE [ISMN]) in patie nts with coronary artery disease.  In patients with heart failure, concomitant use of short-acting nitrates was we ll tolerated. There is limited experience with concomitant use of vericiguat and lo ng-acting nitrates in patients with heart failure (see section 4.4).
> UGT1A9/1A1 inhibitors Vericiguat is metabolised by UGT1A9 and UGT1A1. I nhibitors of these UGTs may result in increased exposure of vericiguat. No clinically meaningful effect on vericigua t exposure was observed when vericiguat was co-administered with MEFENAMIC ACID (weak to moderate UGT1A9 inhibitor).  As strong inhibition of UGT1A9 or combined UGT1A9/ 1A1 has not been tested in clinical drug-drug interaction studies due to the lack of availabl e inhibitors, the clinical consequences of co-administration with these medicina l products are currently unknown.
> H, such as PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS (OMEPRAZOLE), H2-RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS or ANTACIDS  (ALUMINIUM hydroxide/MAGNESIUM HYDROXIDE) did not affect vericiguat exposure when vericiguat was take n as directed with food in heart failure patients (see section 4.2).  No significant interactions Concomitant administration of medicinal products affecting one or more of vericiguat´s elimination pathways does not have a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of vericiguat.  No clinically meaningful effect on verici guat exposure was observed when vericiguat was co-administered with KETOCONAZOLE  (multi-pathway CYP and transpor ter inhibitor), or rifampicin (multi-pathway UGT, CYP and transporter inducer). No clinically meaningful effect on MIDAZOLAM (CYP3A  substrate) or DIGOXIN (P-gp substrate) exposure was observed when vericiguat was co-adm inistered with these medicinal products.
