> Lacosamide should be used with caution in pa tients treated with medicinal products known to be associated  with PR prolongation  (including sodium channel blockin g antiepileptic medicinal products ) and in patients treated with antiarrhythmic s. However, subgroup analysi s in clinical  studies did not identify an increased magnitude o f PR prolongation in patients w ith concomitant admin istration of CARBAMAZEPINE or lamo trigine.
> Lacosamide  does not inhibit or induce  CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 to a clinical ly relevant extent. Lacosamide  did not affect the AUC of mida zolam (metabolised by  CYP3A4, l acosamide given 
200 mg twice a day), but Cmax of MIDAZOLAM was slightly increased (30  %). Lacosamide did  not affect the pharmacokin etics of OMEPRAZOLE (metabolised by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, lacosam ide given 
300 mg twice a day).  The CYP2C19 inhibito r omeprazo le (40 mg once daily ) did not give rise to  a clinically significant change in lacosamide exposure.  Thus, moderate i nhibitors of CYP 2C19 are unlikely to affect syste mic lacosamide exposure to a c linically relevant extent.   Caution is recommended i n concomitant treatment with stron g inhibitors of CY P2C9 (e.g.  FLUCONAZOLE) and CYP3A4 (e.g. ITRACONAZOLE, ketocon azole, RITONAVIR, clarithro mycin), which may lead to increas ed systemic exposure of lacosa mide. Such interactions have no t been established in vivo, but are possible based on in vitro data.
> In interaction  studies lacosamide did not signi ficantly affect the plasma concentrations of CARBAMAZEPINE a nd VALPROIC ACID. Lacosamide p lasma concentrations were not a ffected by carbamazep ine and by  VALPROIC ACID. Population pharmacokinetic  analyses in different age groups estimated that concomitant t reatment with other antiepileptic medicinal products  known to be enzyme inducers (carbamaz epine, PHENYTOIN, PHENOBARBITAL , in VARIOUS doses) d ecreased the overall systemic 9 exposure of lacosamide  by 25 % in adults and 17  % in paediatric patients . 
> Interaction  studies showed that lacosamide ha d no effect on the pharmacokin etics of DIGOXIN. There was no clinically relevant i nteraction between lacosamide and METFORMIN.  Co-administration of WARFARIN with lacosamide does not result in a c linically relevant change i n the pharmacokinetics and pharma codynamics of WARFARIN.  Although no pharmacokinetic data on the interaction of lac osamide wi th alcohol are available , a pharmacodynami c effect cannot be excluded.  Lacosamide has a low protein bind ing of less than 15  %. Therefore, clinically relevant intera ctions with other medicinal pr oducts through competition for protein binding sites  are considered unlikely. 
