> Breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP ) inhibitors  Alpelisib is a substrate for BCRP in vitro . BCRP is involved in the hepatobiliary export and intestinal secretion of alpelisib, therefore  inhibition of BCRP in the liver and in the intestine during elimination may lead to an increase in systemic exposure of alpelisib . Therefore, caution and monitoring for toxicity are advised during concomitant treatment with inhibitors of BCRP (e.g. ELTROMBOPAG, LAPATINIB, PANTOPRAZOLE). 
> Acid-reducing  agents  The co -administration of the H2 receptor antagonist RANITIDINE in combination with a single 300  mg oral dose of alpelisib slightly reduced the bioavailability of alpelisib and decreased overall exposure of alpelisib. In the presence of a low-fat low -calorie ( LFLC ) meal, AUC inf was decreased on average by 
21% and C max by 36% with RANITIDINE. In the absence of food, the effect was more pronounced with a 
30% decrease in AUC inf and a 51% decrease in C max with RANITIDINE compared to the fasted state without co -administ ration of RANITIDINE. Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed no significant effect of co -administration of acid -reducing agents, including PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS, H2 receptor antagonists and ANTACIDS, on the pharmacokinetics of alpelisib . Therefore, a lpelisib can be co-administered with acid -reducing agents, provided  alpelisib is taken immediately after food ( see section  4.2).
> CYP3A4 inducers  Once -daily administration of 600  mg RIFAMPIN (a strong CYP3A4 inducer) for 7  days followed by co-administration with a single 300  mg oral dose of alpelisib on day  8, decreased alpelisib C max by 
38% and AUC by 57% in healthy adults (N=25). Co -administration of RIFAMPIN 600  mg once daily for 
15 days with alpelisib 300  mg once daily starting from day  8 to day  15 decreased the steady -state alpelisib C max by 59% and AUC by 74%. 
> 11 Co-administration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreases alpelisib AUC, which may reduce alpelisib efficacy. Co -administration of alpelisib with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. APALUTAMIDE, CARBAMAZEPINE, ENZALUTAMIDE, MITOTANE, PHENYTOIN, RIFAMPIN, St. John’ s wort) should be avoided and selection of an alternative concomitant medicinal product, with no or minimal potential to induce CYP3A4, should be considered. 
> In a drug-drug interaction study, coadministration of alpelisib with EVEROLIMUS , a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, confirmed that there are no clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions (increase in AUC by 11.2%) between alpelisib and CYP3A4 substrates. No change in EVEROLIMUS exposure was observed at alpelisib doses ranging fro m 250 to 300  mg.
> In healthy subjects, co -administration of a CYP2C9 substrate (S -WARFARIN)  with alpelisib increased S-WARFARIN exposure on average by 34% and 19% for AUC inf and C max respectively, compared to administration with S-WARFARIN alone , which  indicates that alpe lisib is a mild inhibitor of CYP2C9. 
> Substances that are substrates of transporters  In vitro  evaluations indicated that alpelisib (and/or its metabolite BZG791) has a potential to inhibit the activities of OAT3 drug transporters and intestinal BCRP and P -gp. PIQRAY should be used with caution  in combination with sensitive substrates of these transporters which exhibit a narrow therapeutic index  because PIQRAY may increase the systemic exposure of these substrates .
