> Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, vortioxetine is contraindicated in any combination withirreversible non -selective MAOIs. Vortioxetine must not be initiated f or at least 14 days after discontinuation of treatment with an irreversible non -selective MAOI. Vortioxetine must be discontinued for at least 14 days before starting treatment with an irreversible non -selective MAOI (see section 4.3).Reversible, selecti ve MAO -A inhibitor (MOCLOBEMIDE)The combination of vortioxetine with a reversible and selective MAO -A inhibitor, such asmoclobemide, is contraindicated (see section 4.3). If the combination proves necessary, the added medicinal product should be given wi th minimum dosage and under c loseclinical monitoring for serotonin s
> Syndrome (see section 4.4).Reversible, non -selective MAOI (LINEZOLID)Thecombination of vortioxetine with a weak reversible and non -selective MAOI , such as the antibiotic LINEZOLID, iscontraindicated (see section 4.3). If the combination proves necessary, the added medicinal product should be given with minimum dosage and under closeclinical monitoring for serotonin syndrome (see section 4.4).Irreversible, selective MAO -B inhibitor (SELEGILINE, RASAGILINE)Although a lower risk of serotonin syndrome is expected with selective MAO -B inhibitors than with MAO -A inhibitors, the combination of vortioxetine with irreversible MAO -B inhibitors, such as SELEGILINE or RASAGILINE should be admi nistered with caution. Close monitoring for serotonin syndrome is necessary if used concomitantly (see section 4.4).Serotonergic medicinal products
> Co-administration of medicinal product swith serotonergic effect e.g.OPIOIDS (including TRAMADOL )and TRIPTANS (including SUMATRIPTAN )may lead to serotonin syndrome (see section 4.4).St. John’s wort
> Concomitant use of ANTIDEPRESSANTS with serotonergic effect and herbal remedies containing St. John ’swort (Hypericum perforatum ) may result in a higher incidence of adverse reactions including Serotonin Syndrome (see section 4.4).Medicinal products lowering the seizure threshold
> ANTIDEPRESSANTS with serotonergic effect can lower the seizure threshold. Caution is advised whenconcomitantly using other medici nal products capable of lowering the seizure threshold [e.g.,ANTIDEPRESSANTS (tricyclics, SSRIs, SNRIs), neuroleptics (phenothiazines, thioxanthenes and butyrophenones), MEFLOQUINE , BUPROPION ,TRAMADOL ](see section 4.4).ECT (electroconvulsive therapy)There is no clinical experience with concurrent administration of vortioxetine and ECT, therefore caution is advisable.v.
77.0REG_000286837CYP2D6 inhibitors
> The exposure to vortioxetine increased 2.3 -fold for area under the curve (AUC) when vortioxetine 
10mg/day was co -administered with BUPROPION (a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor 150 mgtwice daily )for 
14 days in healthy subjects. Co-administration resulted in a higher incidence of adverse reactions when BUPROPION was added to vortioxetine than when vortioxetine was added to bupr opion. Depending on individual patient response, a lower dose of vortioxetine may be considered if strong CYP2D6 inhibitor (e.g. ,BUPROPION , QUINIDINE, FLUOXETINE, PAROXETINE ) isadded to vortioxetine treatment (see section 4.2).CYP3A4 inhibitors and CYP 2C9,and CYP2C19 inhibitors
> Co-administration of strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (such as itraconazol, VORICONAZOLE, CLARITHROMYCIN, TELITHROMYCIN , NEFAZODONE, CONIVAPTAN and many of the HIV PROTEASE INHIBITORS) and inhib itors of CYP2C9 (such as FLUCONAZOLE and AMIODARONE) to CYP2D6 poor metabolisers (see section 5.2) has not been investigated specifically, but it is anticipated that it will lead to a more marked increased exposure of vortioxetine in these patients as comp aredto the moderate effect described above.Depending on individual patient response, a lower dose of vortioxetine may be considered if a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 is co -administered in CYP2D6 poor metabolisers .Cytochrome P450 inducers
> When a single dose of 20 mgvortioxetine was co -administered following 10 days of rifampicin 
600mg/day (a broad inducer of CYP isozymes) in healthy subjects, a 72% decrease in AUC of vortioxetine was observed. Depending on individual patient response, a dose ad justment may be considered if abroad cytochrome P450 inducer (e.g. ,rifampicin, CARBAMAZEPINE, PHENYTOIN) is added to vortioxetine treatment (see section 4.2).Alcohol
> No significant effects, relative to placebo, were observed in INR, prothrombin or plasma R-/S-WARFARIN values following co -administration of multiple dose sofvortioxetine with stable doses of WARFARIN in hea lthysubjects. Also, no significant inhibitory effect, relative to placebo, on platelet aggregation or pharmacokinetics of a cetylsalicylic acid or SALICYLIC ACID was observed whenacetylsalicylic acid 150mg/day was co -administered following multiple doses of vortioxetine administration in healthy subjects. However, caution should be exercised when vortioxetine is combined with oral anticoagulants or antiplatelet medicinal products or medicines used for pain relief(e.g. acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) or NSAIDs ), due to a potential increased risk of bleeding attributable to a pharmacodynamic interaction (see section 4.4).v.
77.0REG_000286838Cytochrome P450 substrates
> No clinically relevant effect was observed during steady -state LITHIUM exposure following co -administration with multiple doses of vortioxetine in healthy subjects. However, there have been reports of enhanced effects when antidepressan ts with se rotonergic effect have been given together with LITHIUM or tryptophan ;therefore ,concomitant use of vortioxetine with these medicinal products should be undertaken with caution.Interference with urine drug screens
