> P450 ENZYMES. However, caspof ungin has been shown to interact with other medicinal products inpharmacological and clinical studies  (see below).5In two clinical studies perf ormed in healthy adult subjects, cyclosporin A (one 4
 mg/kg dose  or two
3 mg
/kg doses 12
 hours apart) increased the AUC of CASPOFUNGIN by approximately 35
 
%. These AUCincreases are probably due to reduced uptake of caspof ungin by the liver. CASPOFUNGIN did not increasethe plasma levels of cyclosporin. There were transient increases in liver ALT and AST of less than orequal to 3 -f old the upper limit of  normal (ULN) when CASPOFUNGIN and cyclosporin wereco-adminis tered, that resolved with discontinuation of the medicinal products. In a retrospective studyof  40  patient s treated during marketed use with CASPOFUNGIN and cyclosporin for
 1 to 290  days (median
17.5 days), no serious hepatic adverse reactions were noted (see section  4.
4). Close monitoring of  liverenzymes should be considered if the two medicinal products are
 used concom itantly.CASPOFUNGIN reduced  the trough concentration
 of TACROLIMUS by 26
 % in healthy adult volunteers
. Forpatients receiving both the rapies, standard monitoring of TACROLIMUS blood concentrations andappropriate TACROLIMUS dosage adjustments are mandat ory. Clinical studies in healthy adult volunteers show that the pharmacokinetics of CASPOFUNGIN
 are notaltered to a clinically relevan t extent by ITRACONAZOLE, amphotericin
 B, mycophenolate, nelf inavir, ortacrolimus
. Caspof ungin did not influenc e the pharmacokinetics of AMPHOTERICIN B, ITRACONAZOLE,rif ampicin or MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL. Although safety data are limited it appears that no  specialprecautions are needed when AMPHOTERICIN B, ITRACONAZOLE, NELFINAVIR or mycophenolate mof etil areco-administered with CASPOFUNGIN.Rif ampicin caused a 
60 % increase in AUC and 
170 
% increase in trough concentration ofcaspofungin on the f irst day of  co -administration when both medicinal products were initiated togetherin healthy adult volunteers
. Caspof u ngin trough levels gradually decreased upon repeatedadminist ration. After two weeks’ administration rifampicin had limited effect on AUC , but troughlevels we re 30 
% lower than in adult subjects who received CASPOFUNGIN alone
. The mechanism ofintera ction  could possibly be due to an initial
 inhibition and subsequent induction of transport proteins.A similar ef fect could be expected f or other med icinal products
 that induce metabolic ENZYMES
.Limited data from population pharmacokinetics studies indicate that concomitant use of caspof unginwith the inducers ef avirenz
, NEVIRAPINE, rifampicin, DEXAMETHASONE, PHENYTOIN, or CARBAMAZEPINE mayresul t in a decre ase in CASPOFUNGIN AUC. When co
-administering inducers of metabolic ENZYMES
, anincrease in the daily dos e of  caspof ungin  to 70 mg, f ollowing
 the 70 mg loading dose, should beconsidered in adult patients (see section  4.2).All adult drug
-drug interaction studies
 described above were conducted at a 50 or 70
 mg dailycaspofungin dose. The interaction of highe r doses  of CASPOFUNGIN with other medicinal products
 hasnot been f ormally studied.In paediatric patients, results from regression analyses of pharmacokinetic data suggest thatco-administration of DEXAMETHASONE with caspof u ngin may result in clinically meaning f ul reductionsin CASPOFUNGIN
 trough concentrations. This f inding may indicate that paediatric patients will havesimilar reductions
 with inducers as seen in adults. When
 caspof ungin  is co-administered to paediatricpatients ( 12 months to 17  years of  age) with inducers of drug clearance, such as rif ampicin, ef avirenz,NEVIRAPINE, PHENYTOIN, DEXAMETHASONE, or CARBAMAZEPINE, a CASPOFUNGIN dose of  70 -mg/m2 daily (notto exceed an actual daily dose of 70
 mg) should be considered.

