> PEMETREXED is mainly eliminated unchanged renally by tubular secretion and to a lesser extent by glomerular filtration. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic active substances (e.g. aminoglycoside, l oop DIURETICS, PLATINUM COMPOUNDS, cyclosporin) could potentially result in delayed clearance of PEMETREXED. This combination should be used with caution. If necessary, creatinine clearance should be closely monitored.  7  Concomitant administration of substa nces that are also tubularly secreted (e.g. PROBENECID, penicillin) could potentially result in delayed clearance of PEMETREXED. Caution should be made when these substances  are combined with PEMETREXED. If necessary, creatinine clearance should be closely  monitored. 
> In patients with normal renal function (creatinine clearance >  80 ml/min), high doses of non- steroidal anti-inflammatory medicinal products  (NSAIDs, such as IBUPROFEN >  1600  mg/day) and acetylsalicylic acid at higher dose ( > 1.3 g daily) may d ecrease PEMETREXED elimination and, consequently, increase the occurrence of PEMETREXED adverse reactions . Therefore, caution should be made when administering higher doses of NSAIDs or acetylsalicylic acid , concurrently with PEMETREXED to patients with no rmal function (creatinine clearance >  80 ml/min). 
> In patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance from 45  to 79 ml/min), the concomitant administration of PEMETREXED with NSAIDs (e.g. IBUPROFEN) or acetylsalicylic acid  at higher dose should be avoided for 2 days before, on the day of, and 2  days following PEMETREXED administration (see section  4.4).
> In the absence of data regarding potential interaction with NSAIDs having longer half -lives such as PIROXICAM or ROFECOXIB, the concomitant administration with PEMETREXED in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency should be interrupted for at least 5  days prior to, on the day of, and at least 2  days following PEMETREXED administration (see section  4.4). If concomit ant administration of NSAIDs is necessary, patients should be monitored closely for toxicity, especially myelosuppression and gastrointestinal toxicity. 
> Interactions common to all cytotoxics  Due to the increased t hrombotic risk in patients with cancer, the use of anticoagulation treatment is frequent. The high intra -individual variability of the coagulation status during diseases and the possibility of interaction between oral anticoagulants and anticancer chemothe rapy require increased frequency of INR (International Normalised Ratio) monitoring, if it is decided to treat the patient with oral anticoagulants.  Concomitant use contraindicated: Yellow fever vaccine: risk of fatal generalised vaccinale disease (see section 4.3).  Concomitant use not recommended: Live attenuated VACCINES (except yellow fever, for which concomitant use is contraindicated): risk of systemic, possibly fatal, disease. The risk is increased in subjects who are already immunosuppressed by their  underlying disease. Use an inactivated vaccine where it exists (poliomyelitis) (see section  4.4). 
