> Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients treated with medicinal products known to be  associated with PR prolongation (including sodium channel blocking antiepileptic medicinal products) and in patients treated with antiarrhythmics. However, subgroup analysis in clinical studies did not  identify an increased magnitude of PR prolongation in patients with concomitant administration of  CARBAMAZEPINE  or LAMOTRIGINE. 
> In vivo data Lacosamide does not inhibit or induce CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 to a clinically relevant extent. Lacosamide did not affect the AUC of MIDAZOLAM (metabolised by CYP3A4, lacosamide given 200 mg  twice a day) but Cmax of MIDAZOLAM was slightly increased (30 %). Lacosamide did not affect the pharmacokinetics of OMEPRAZOLE (metabolised by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, lacosamide given 
300 mg  twice a day).  The CYP2C19 inhibitor OMEPRAZOLE (40  mg once daily) did not give rise to a clinically significant change in lacosamide  exposure. Thus, moderate inhibitors of CYP2C19 are unlikely to affect systemic  lacosamide exposure to a clinically  relevant extent.  Caution is recommended in concomitant treatment with strong inhibitors of CYP2C9 (e.g. FLUCONAZOLE) and CYP3A4 (e.g. ITRACONAZOLE, KETOCONAZOLE, RITONAVIR, CLARITHROMYCIN), which may lead to increased systemic exposure of lacosamide. Such interactions have not been established in vivo but are possible based on  in vitro  data. 
> In interaction studies lacosamide did not significantly affect the plasma concentrations of  CARBAMAZEPINE and VALPROIC ACID. Lacosamide plasma concentrations were not affected by  CARBAMAZEPINE and by VALPROIC ACID. Population pharmacokinetic analyses in di fferent age groups  estimated that concomitant treatment with other antiepileptic medicinal products known to be enzyme inducers (CARBAMAZEPINE, PHENYTOIN, PHENOBARBITAL, in VARIOUS doses) decreased the overall systemic exposure  of lacosamide by  25% in adul ts and 17%  in paediatric patients. 
> Interaction studies showed that lacosamide  had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of DIGOXIN. There  was no clinically relevant  interaction  between  lacosamide and METFORMIN.  Co-administration of WARFARIN with lacosamide does not result in a clinically relevant change in the  pharmacokinetics  and pharmacodynamics of WARFARIN.  Although no pharmacokinetic data on the interaction of lacosamide with alcohol are available, a  pharmacodynamic  effect  cannot  be excluded.  Lacosamide has a low protein binding of less than 15% . Therefore, clinically relevant i nteractions  with  other  medicinal products  through  competition  for protein binding sites are considered unlikely. 
