> Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban are not recommended for patients with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. In particular for patients that are triple pos itive (for lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and anti-beta 2-glycoprotein  I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be associated with increased rates of recurrent thrombotic events compared with VITAMIN K antagonist therapy. 
> When neuraxial anaesthesia (spinal/epidural anaesthesia) or spinal/epidural puncture is employed, patients treated with ANTITHROMBOTIC AGENTS for prevention of thromboembolic complications are at risk of developing an epidural or  spinal haematoma which can result in long -term or permanent paralysis. The risk of these events may be increased by the post -operative use of indwelling epidural catheters or the concomitant use of medicinal products affecting haemostasis. The risk may al so be increased by traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. Patients are to be frequently monitored for signs and symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g. numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel or bladder dysfunction). If neurological compromis e is noted, urgent diagnosis and treatment is necessary. Prior to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the potential benefit versus the risk in anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis. There is no clinical experience with the use of Rivaroxaban  2.5 mg and antiplatelet agents  in these situations.  Platelet aggregation inhibitors should be discontinued as suggested by the manufacturer’s prescribing information.  To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concurrent use of rivaroxaban and neuraxial (epidural/spinal) anaesthesia or sp inal puncture, consider the pharmacokinetic profile of rivaroxaban. Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lumbar puncture is best performed when the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is estimated to be low (see section  5.2). However, the exact timing to reach a sufficiently low anticoagulant effect in each patient is not known. 
> If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, RIVAROXABAN ACCORD  2.5 mg should be stopped at least 12  hours before the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the physician. If a patient is to undergo elective surgery and anti -platelet effect is not desired, platelet aggregation inhibitors shoul d be discontinued as directed by the manufacturer’s prescribing information.  If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased risk of bleeding should be assessed against the urgency of the intervention.  RIVAROXABAN ACCORD  should be restarted as soon as pos sible after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention provided the clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established as determined by the treating physician (see section  5.2).
> Co-administration of rivaroxaban with KETOCONAZOLE (400  mg once a day) or RITONAVIR (600  mg twice a day) led to a 2.6 -fold / 2.5-fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7 -fold / 1.6-fold increase in mean rivaroxaban C max, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which may lead to an increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of rivaroxaban  is not recommend ed in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with azole -antimycotics such as KETOCONAZOLE, ITRACONAZOLE, VORICONAZOLE and POSACONAZOLE or HIV PROTEASE INHIBITORS. These active substances are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P -gp (see section  4.4).
> Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a lesser extent. CLARITHROMYCIN (500 mg twice a day), for instance, considered as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and moderate P -gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 -fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.4 -fold increase in C max. The interaction with CLARITHROMYCIN is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but ca n be potentially significant in high-risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section  4.4).
> ERYTHROMYCIN (500  mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P -gp moderately, led to a 1.3 -fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and C max. The  interaction with ERYTHROMYCIN is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high -risk patients.  In subjects with mild renal impairment ERYTHROMYCIN (500  mg three times a day) led to a 1.8 -fold increase in mean ri varoxaban AUC and 1.6 -fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with normal renal function. In subjects with moderate renal impairment, ERYTHROMYCIN led to a 2.0 -fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 -fold increase in Cmax when compared to sub jects with normal renal function. The effect of ERYTHROMYCIN is additive to that of renal impairment (see section  4.4).
> FLUCONAZOLE (400  mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 -fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1. 3-fold increase in mean C max. The interaction with FLUCONAZOLE is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high -risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section  4.4).
> PTT). ENOXAPARIN did not affect the pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban.  Due to the increased bleeding risk care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with any other anticoagulants (s ee sections  4.3 and  4.4).
> No clinically relevant prolongation of bleeding time was observed after concomitant administration of rivaroxaban (15  mg) and 500  mg NAPROXEN. Nevertheless, there may be individuals with a more pronounced pharmacodynamic response.  No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when rivaroxaban was co -administered with 500  mg acetylsalicylic acid.  CLOPIDOGREL (300  mg loading dose followed by 75  mg main tenance dose) did not show a pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15  mg) but a relevant increase in bleeding time was observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to platelet aggregation, P -selectin or GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels.  Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal products typically increase the bleeding risk (see section  4.4).
> Converting patients from the vitamin  K antagonist WARFARIN (INR  2.0 to  3.0) to rivaroxaban (20  mg) or from rivaroxaban (20  mg) to war farin (INR  2.0 to  3.0) increased prothrombin time/INR (Neoplastin) more than additively (individual INR values up to 12 may be observed), whereas effects on a
> Co-administration of rivaroxaban with the s trong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin led to an approximate 50  % decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases in its pharmacodynamic effects. The concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. PHENYTOIN, CARBAMAZEPINE, phenob arbital or St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum) ) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban plasma concentrations. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and symptoms o f thrombosis. 
> No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when rivaroxaban was co -administered with MIDAZOLAM (substrate of CYP3A4), DIGOXIN (substrate of P -gp), ATORVASTATIN (substr ate of CYP3A4 and P -gp) or OMEPRAZOLE (proton pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4.   No clinically relevant interaction with food was observed (see section  4.2).
