> Induction of CYP1A2 The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking and CARBAMAZEPINE, which may lead to reduced olanzapine concentrations. Only slight to moderate increase in olanzapine clearance has been observed. The clinical consequences are likely to be limited, but clinical monitoring is recommended and an increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary ( see section  4.2).
> Inhibition of CYP1A2 FLUVOXAMINE, a specific CYP1A2 inhibitor, has been shown to significantly inhibit the metabolism of olanzapine. The mean increase in olanzapine C max following FLUVOXAMINE was 54% in female non-smokers and 77% in male smokers. The mean increase in olanzapine AUC was 52% and 108% respectively. A lower starting dose of olanzapine should be considered in patients who are using FLUVOXAMINE or any other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as CIPROFLOXACIN. A decrease in the dose of olanzapine should be considered if treatment with an inhibitor of CYP1A2 is initiated. 
> Decreased bioavailability  Activated charcoal reduces the bioavailability of oral olanzapine by 50 to 60% and should be taken at least 2  hours before or after olanzapine.  FLUOXETINE (a CYP2D6 inhibitor), single doses of antacid (ALUMINIUM, MAGNESIUM) or CIMETIDINE have not been found to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
> Potential for olanzapine to affect other medicinal products  Olanzapine may antagonise the effects of direct and indirect DOPAMINE AGONISTS.  Olanzapine does not inhi bit the main CYP450 isoenzymes in vitro (e.g. 1A2, 2D6, 2C9, 2C19, 3A4). Thus no particular interaction is expected as verified through in vivo studies where no inhibition of metabolism of the following active substances was found: tricyclic antidepressant  (representing mostly CYP2D6 pathway), WARFARIN (CYP2C9), THEOPHYLLINE (CYP1A2) or DIAZEPAM (CYP3A4 and 2C19).  Olanzapine showed no interaction when co-administered with LITHIUM or BIPERIDEN.  Therapeutic monitoring of valproate plasma levels did not indica te that valproate dosage adjustment is required after the introduction of concomitant olanzapine. 
> General CNS activity  Caution should be exercised in patients who consume alcohol or receive medicinal products that can cause CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM depressi on. The concomitant use of olanzapine with anti -Parkinsonian medicinal products in patients with Parkinson's disease and dementia is not recommended ( see section  4.4).
