> Azole antifungals  (e.g. KETOCONAZOLE)  KETOCONAZOLE (200  mg daily), increased tadalafil (10  mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 2- fold and C max by 15 %, relative to the AUC and C max values for tadalafil alone. KETOCONAZOLE (400  mg daily) increased tadalafil  (20 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 4 -fold and C max by 22  %.
> PROTEASE INHIBITORS (e.g. RITONAVIR)  RITONAVIR (200 mg twice daily), which is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, increased tadalafil (20  mg) single dose exposure  (AUC) 2 -fold with no change in Cmax. RITONAVIR (500 mg or 600 mg twice  daily) increased tadalafil (20  mg) single -dose exposure (AUC) by 32 % and decreased C max by 30 %. 
> Anti-hypertensives (including CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS)  The co -administration of DOXAZOSIN (4 and 8 mg daily) and tadalafil (5 mg daily dose and 20 mg as a single dose) increases the blood pressure- lowering effect of this alpha -blocker in a significant manner. This effect lasts at least twelve hours and may be symptomatic, including syncope. Therefore, this combination is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
> In clinical pharmacology studies, the potential for tadalafil (10 and 20  mg) to augment the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive medicinal products  was examined. Major classes of antihypertensive medicinal products  were studied either as monotherapy or as part of combination therapy. In patients taking multiple antihypertensive medicinal products  whose hypertension was not well controlled, greater reductions in blood pressure were observed compared to patients  whose  blood pressure was well controlled, where the reduction was minimal and similar to that in healthy subjects. In patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive medicin al products , tadalafil 20  mg may induce a blood pressure decrease, which (with the excep tion of DOXAZOSIN - see above ) is, in general, minor and not likely to be clinically relevant. 
> RIOCIGUAT  Preclinical studies showed an additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when PDE5 inhibitors were combined with RIOCIGUAT.  In clinical trials , RIOCIGUAT has been shown to augment the hypotensive effects of PDE5 inhibitors. There was no evidence of favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied. Concomitant use of RIOCIGUAT with PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil , is contraindicated (see section  4.3).  
> CYP1A2 substrates (e.g. THEOPHYLLINE)  When tadalafil 10  mg was administered with THEOPHYLLINE (a non- selective phosphodiesterase inhibitor) there was no pharmacokinetic interaction. The only pharmacodynamic effect was a small (3.5 beats per minutes [b pm]) increase in heart rate. 
> Acetylsalicylic acid  Tadalafil (10  mg and 20 mg) did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by acetyl SALICYLIC ACID. 
> Oral c ontraceptive  At steady -state, tadalafil (40  mg once per day) increased ethinylestradiol exposure (AUC) by 26 % and Cmax by 70 % relative to oral contraceptive administered with  placebo.  There was no statistically significant effect of tadalafil on LEVONORGESTREL which suggests the effect of ethinylestradiol is due to inhibition of intestinal sulphation by tadalafil. The clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain. 
>  8 Terbutal ine A similar increase in AUC and C max seen with ethinylestradiol may be expected with oral administration of TERBUTALINE, probably due to inhibition of intestinal  sulphation by tadalafil. The clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain .
