> CYP3A inhibitors Concomitant use of medicinal pro ducts that are moderate CYP3A i nhibitors (e.g. AMPRENAVIR, APREPITANT, ATAZANAVIR, ciproflox acin, CRIZOTINIB, DARUNAVIR/ri tonavir, DILTIAZEM, ERYTHROMYCIN, FLUCONAZOLE, FOSAMPRENAVIR, ima tinib, VERAPAMIL) or strong CYP3 A inhibitors (e.g. ITRACONAZOLE, KETOCONAZOLE, RITONAVIR, clarithro mycin) increase tolvaptan exp osure.
> Co-administration of tolvaptan  and KETOCONAZOLE resulted in a 4 40 % increase in area under time-concentration curve (AUC) and 24 8 % increase in maximum observe d plasma concentration (Cmax) for tolvaptan.
> Co-administration of tolvaptan  and FLUCONAZOLE, a moderate CYP3 A inhibitor, produced a 200 % and 
80 % increase in tolvaptan AUC and C max, respectively.
> Co-administration of tolvaptan  with GRAPEFRUIT JUICE, a moderat e to strong CYP3A inhibitor, produced a doubling of peak tolvaptan concentrations (Cmax).
> CYP3A inducers Concomitant use of medicinal produ cts that are potent CYP3A ind ucers (e.g. rifampicin) will decrease tolvaptan exposure and efficacy. Co-administration of tolvaptan  with rifampicin reduces C max and AUC for tolvaptan by about 85 %. The refore, concomitant administrat ion of tolvaptan with potent CYP3A inducers (e.g. rifampicin, rifa butin, RIFAPENTINE, PHENYTOIN, c arbamazepine, and St. John’s Wort) is to be avoided.
> Co-administration with medicinal products  that increase serum sodium concentration There is no experience from controlled clinical trials with con comitant use of tolvaptan and hypertonic SODIUM CHLORIDE solution, oral sodium formulations, and medicin al products that increase serum sodium concentration. Medicinal products with high sodium content such  as effervescent analgesic preparations and certain sodium containing treat ments for dyspepsia may also  increase serum sodium concentration. Concomitant use of tolvaptan with  medicinal products that incre ase serum sodium concentration may result in a higher risk for dev eloping hypernatraemia (see sect ion 4.4) and is therefore not recommended.  DIURETICS Tolvaptan has not been extensively studied in ADPKD in combinat ion with DIURETICS. While there does not appear to be a synergistic or additive effect of concomitan t use of tolvaptan with loop and thiazide DIURETICS, each class of agent has the potential to lead to sev ere dehydration, which constitutes a risk factor for renal dysfunction. If dehydration or renal dysfuncti on becomes evident, appropriate action must be taken which may include t he need to interrupt or reduce  doses of tolvaptan and/or DIURETICS and increased fluid intake. Other potential causes of renal dysfunc tion or dehydration must be evaluated and addressed.  9 Effect of tolvaptan on the pharmacokinetics of other products
> CYP3A substrates In healthy subjects, tolvaptan, a  CYP3A substrate, had no effec t on the plasma concentrations of some other CYP3A substrates (e.g. wa rfarin or AMIODARONE). Tolvaptan  increased plasma levels of LOVASTATIN by 1.3-to 1.5-fold. Even though this increase has no clinical r elevance, it indicates tolvaptan can potentially increase exposure to CYP3A4 substrates.  Transporter substrates P-glycoprotein substrates: In-vitro  studies indicate that tolvaptan is a substrate and competitive  inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Steady state DIGOXIN concentrations w ere increased (1.3-fold in maximum observed plasma concentration [Cmax] and 1.2-fold in area under the plasma concentration-time curv e over the dosing interval [AUC τ]) when co-administered with mu ltiple once daily 60 mg doses of  tolvaptan. Patients receiving dig oxin or other narrow therapeut ic P-gp substrates (e.g. DABIGATRAN) must therefore be managed cautiously  and evaluated for excessive eff ects when treated with tolvaptan.
> OATP1B1/OAT3/BCRP and OCT1:  In-vitro  studies indicate that tolvaptan or its oxobutyric metabolite may have the potential to inhib it OATP1B1, OAT3, BCRP and OCT1 transporters. Co-administration of tolvaptan (90 mg) with ROSUVASTATIN (5 mg), a BCRP substrate , increased ROSUVASTATIN Cmax and AUC t of 54 % and 69 %, respectively. If BCRP substrates (e.g. sulfas alazine) are co-administered with tolvaptan, patients must be ma naged cautiously and evaluated fo r excessive effects of these medicinal products. Administration of ROSUVASTATIN ( OATP1B1 substrate) or furosemid e (OAT3 substrate) to healthy subjects with elevated oxobutyric  acid metabolite (inhibitor of  OATP1B1 and OAT3) plasma concentrations did not meaningf ully alter the pharmacokinetics of ROSUVASTATIN or FUROSEMIDE. Statins commonly used in the tolvaptan phase 3 pivotal trial (e.g. rosu vastatin and PITAVASTATIN) are OATP1B1 or OATP1B3 substrates, however no difference in adverse events profile was observed during the phase 3 pivotal trial for tolvaptan in ADPKD. If OCT1 substrates (e.g. METFORMIN ) are co-administered with to lvaptan, patients must be managed cautiously and evaluated for excessive effects of these medicin al products.
> Co-administration with VASOPRESSIN analogues In addition to its renal aquare tic effect, tolvaptan is capable  of blocking vascular VASOPRESSIN V2 receptors involved in the release of coagulation factors (e.g. von Willebrand factor) from endothelial cells. Therefore, the effect of VASOPRESSIN analogues such as d esmopressin may be attenuated in patients using such analogues to prevent or control bleeding when co-adm inistered with tolvaptan. It is not recommended to administer Ji narc with VASOPRESSIN analogues.
