> Deferasirox metabolism depends on U GT ENZYMES. In a hea lthy volunteer s tudy, the conco mitant administration of  deferasirox  (single dose of  30 mg/kg, dispers ible tablet formulation) and the potent UGT inducer, rifa mpicin, (repea ted dose of  600 mg/day) resulted in a dec rease of de ferasirox exposure by  44% (90% CI: 37% - 51%). Therefore, the conco mitant use of deferasirox with potent UGT inducers (e.g. rifa mpicin, carba mazepine, phen ytoin, phenobarbita l, ritona vir) may result  in a decrease in deferasirox efficac y. The patien t’s serum ferritin shou ld be monitored d uring and after  the co mbination, and the dose of  deferasirox adjusted if necessar y.
> Interaction with MIDAZOLAM  and o ther agents metabolised by  CYP3A4
> In a hea lthy volunteer s tudy, the conco mitant administration of de ferasirox as a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor (30  mg/kg daily, dispers ible tablet formulation), with repa glinide, a CYP2C8 substra te, given as a s ingle dose of  0.5 mg, increased repa glinide A UC and Cmax about  2.3-fold (90% CI [2.03 -2.63]) and 1.6 -fold (90% CI [1.42-1.84]), respecti vely. Since the interaction has not been  estab lished with doses hi gher than 0.5  mg for repa glinide, the conco mitant use of deferasirox with repa glinide should be a voided. If the co mbination appea rs necessa ry, care ful clinical  and b lood GLUCOSE monitoring  shou ld be perfor med (see section  4.4). An inte raction between defe rasirox and other  CYP2C8 substra tes like pac litaxel  cannot  be exc luded. 
> In a hea lthy volunteer s tudy, the conco mitant administration of  deferasirox  as a C YP1A2 inhibitor (repea ted dose of 30  mg/kg/day, dispers ible tablet formulation) and the CYP1A2 substra te theoph ylline (single dose of  120 mg) resulted in an increase of theoph ylline A UC by 84% (90% CI: 
73% to 95%). The sin gle dose Cmax was not  affected, but  an increase of theoph ylline Cmax is expected to occur with ch ronic dosin g. Therefore, the conco mitant use of  deferasirox  with theoph ylline is not reco mmended. If deferasirox  and theoph ylline are used conco mitantly, monitoring  of theoph ylline concen tration and theoph ylline dose reduction shou ld be cons idered. An interaction be tween de ferasirox and o ther CYP1A2 substra tes cannot  be exc luded. For substances that are predominantly metabolised by  CYP1A2 and that have a na rrow therapeutic index (e.g. CLOZAPINE, TIZANIDINE), the sa me recommendations apply  as for theoph ylline. 
> The conco mitant administration of deferasirox  and alu minium-containing antacid prepara tions has not been for mally studied. Al though deferasirox has a lower affinity  for ALUMINIUM  than for IRON, it  is not recommended to ta ke deferasirox  tablets with ALUMINIUM-containing antacid prepara tions. 
> Concomitant administration of deferasirox and BUSULFAN resulted in an increase of BUSULFAN exposure (AUC), but the mechanism of the interaction remains unclear. If possible, evaluation of the pharmacokinetics (AUC, clearance) of a BUSULFAN test dose should  be performed to allow dose adjustment. 
