> DIMETHYL FUMARATE has not been studied in combination with anti -neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies and caution should, therefore, be used during concomitant administration. In multiple sclerosis clinical studies, the concomitant treatment of relapses with a short course of intravenous CORTICOSTEROIDS was not associated with a clinically relevan t increase of infection. 
> Concomitant administration of non -live VACCINES according to national vaccination schedules may be considered during DIMETHYL FUMARATE therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71 patients with RRMS , patients on DIMETHYL FUMARATE 240  mg twice daily  for at least 6  months (n  = 38) or non -pegylated interferon for at least 3  months (n  = 33), mounted a comparable immune response (defined as ≥ 2-fold increase from pre - to post -vaccination titre) to TETANUS TOXOID (recall antigen) and a conjugated meningoc occal C polysaccharide vaccine (neoantigen), while the immune response to different serotypes of an unconjugated 23 -valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (T -cell independent antigen) varied in both treatment groups. A positive immune response defined as a 
≥ 4-fold increase in antibody titre to the three VACCINES, was achieved by fewer subjects in both treatment groups. Small numerical differences in the response to TETANUS TOXOID and pneumococcal serotype 3 polysaccharide were noted in favour of non -pegylated interferon. 
> No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated VACCINES in patients taking DIMETHYL FUMARATE. Live VACCINES might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should not be given to patients treated w ith DIMETHYL FUMARATE unless, in exceptional cases, this potential risk is considered to be outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vaccinating. 
> Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, d iuretics, non -steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs or LITHIUM) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions (e.g. proteinuria see section  4.8) in patients taking DIMETHYL FUMARATE (see section  4.4 Blood/laboratory tests). 
> Consumption of moderate am ounts of alcohol did not alter exposure to DIMETHYL FUMARATE and was not associated with an increase in adverse reactions. Consumption of large amounts  of strong alcoholic drinks (more than 30% alcohol by volume) should be avoided within an hour of taking DIMETHYL FUMARATE, as alcohol may lead to increased frequency of gastrointestinal adverse reactions. 
