> In a Phase 1 study, the co- administration of ESBRIET and FLUVOXAMINE (a strong inhibitor of CYP1A2 with inhibitory effects on other CYP isoenzymes  [CYP2C9, 2C19, and 2D6])  resulted in a 4 -fold increase in exposure to pirfenidone  in non- smokers. 
> ESBRIET is contraindicated in patients with concomitant use of FLUVOXAMINE (see section 4.3).  FLUVOXAMINE should be discontinued prior to the initiation of ESBRIET therapy and avoided during ESBRIET therapy due to the reduced clearance of pirfenidone. Other  therapies that are inhibitors of both CYP1A2 and one or more other CYP isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of pirfenidone (e.g. CYP2C9, 2C19, and 2D6)  should be avoided during pirfenidone treatment. 
> In vitro and in vivo extrapolations indicate that strong and selective inhibitors of CYP1A2 (e.g. ENOXACIN) have the potential to increase the exposure to pirfenidone by approximately 2 to 4- fold.  If concomitant use of ESBRIET with a strong and selective inhibitor of CYP1A2 cannot be avoided, the dose of pirfenidone should be reduced to 801 mg daily (one capsule, three times a day). Patients should be closely monitored for emergence of adverse reactions associated with ESBRIET therapy. Discontinue ESBRIET if necessary (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
> 6 Co-administration of ESBRIET and 750 mg of CIPROFLOXACIN (a moderate inhibitor of CYP1A2) increased the exposure to pirfenidone by 81%. If CIPROFLOXACIN at the dose  of 750 mg two times a day cannot be avoided, the dose of pirfenidone should be reduced to 1602 mg daily (two capsules, three times a day). ESBRIET should be used with caution when CIPROFLOXACIN is used at a dose of 250 mg or 500 mg once or two times a day . 
> A Phase 1 interaction study evaluated the effect of cigarette smoking (CYP1A2 inducer) on the pharmacokinetics of pirfenidone. The exposure to pirfenidone in smokers was 50% of that observed in non-smokers. Smoking has the potential to induce hepatic enzyme production and thus increase medicinal product clearance and decrease exposure. Concomitant use of strong inducers of CYP1A2 including smoking should be avoided dur ing ESBRIET therapy based on the observed relationship between cigarette smoking and its potential to induce CYP1A2. Patients should be encouraged to discontinue use of strong inducers of CYP1A2 and to stop smoking before and during treatment with pirfenid one. 
> In the case of moderate inducers of CYP1A2 (e.g. OMEPRAZOLE), concomitant use may theoretically result in a lowering of pirfenidone plasma levels. 
