> DIROXIMEL FUMARATE  has not been studied in combination with anti- neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies and caution should, therefore, be used during concomitant administration. In MS  clinical studies, the concomitant treatment of relapses with a short course of intravenous CORTICOSTEROIDS was not associated with a clinically relevant increase of infection. 
> Concomitant administration of non- live VACCINES according to national vaccination schedules may be considered during VUMERITY  therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71 patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis  (RRMS) , patients on DIMETHYL FUMARATE 240  mg twice daily for at least 
6 months (n=38) or non-pegylated interferon for at least 3 months (n=33), mounted a comparable immune response (defined as ≥  2-fold increase from pre - to post-vaccination tit re) to TETANUS TOXOID (recall antigen) and a conjugated meningococcal C polysaccharide vaccine (neoantigen), while the immune response to different serotypes of an unconjugated 23- valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (T -cell independent antigen) varied in both treatment groups. A posit ive immune response defined as a ≥  4-fold increase in antibody tit re to the three VACCINES, was achieved by fewer patients  in both treatment groups. Small numerical differences in the response to TETANUS TOXOID and pneumococcal serotype 3 polysaccharide we re noted in favour of non- pegylated interferon. 
> No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated VACCINES in patients taking VUMERITY . Live VACCINES might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should not be given to patients unless, in exceptional cases, this potential risk is considered to be outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vaccinating. 
> Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, DIURETICS, non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs or LITHIUM) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions (e.g. proteinuria see section 4.8) in patients taking VUMERITY  (see section  4.4).
