> Nitrates  In a clinical study the highest dose of riociguat (2.5 mg tablets 3 times daily ) potentiated the blood pressure lowering effect of sublingual NITROGLYCERIN (0.4  mg) taken 4  and 8 hours after intake. Therefore , co-administration of riociguat with nitrates or NITRIC OXIDE donors (such as AMYL NITRITE)  in any form, including recreational drugs called ‘poppers’, is contraindicated (see section  4.3).
> PDE5 inhibitors  Preclinical studies in animal models showed additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when riociguat was combined with either SILDENAFIL or VARDENAFIL. With increased doses, over additive effects on systemic blood pressure were observed in some cases.  In an exploratory interaction study in 7  patients with PAH on stable SILDENAFIL treatment (20  mg 
3 times daily ) single doses of riociguat (0. 5 mg and 1 mg sequentially) showed additive haemodynamic effects. Doses above 1  mg riociguat were not investigated in this study.  A 12 week combination study in 18  patients with PAH on stable SILDENAFIL treatment (20  mg 3 times daily) and riociguat (1.0  mg to 2.5 mg 3 times daily ) compared to SILDENAFIL alone was performed. In the long-term extension part of this study ( non-controlled) the concomitant use of SILDENAFIL and riociguat resulted in a high rate of discontinuation, predominately due to hypotensio n. There was no evidence of a favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied.  Concomitant use of riociguat with PDE5  inhibitors (such as SILDENAFIL, TADALAFIL, VARDENAFIL) is contraindicated (see section s 4.2 and 4.3). RESPITE was a 24-week, uncontrolled study to investigate switching from PDE5  inhibitors to riociguat, in 61  adult PAH patients on stable PDE5  inhibitors . All patients were WHO  Functional Class III and 82% received background therapy with an endothelin receptor antagon ist (ERA). For the transition from PDE 5 inhibitors to riociguat, median treatment -free time for SILDENAFIL was 1  day and for TADALAFIL 3  days. Overall, the safety profile observed in the study was comparable with that observed in the pivotal trials, with n o serious adverse events reported during the transition period. Six patients (10%) experienced at least one clinical worsening event, including 2  deaths unrelated to study drug. Changes from baseline suggested beneficial effects in selected patients, e.g. improvement in 6MWD (+ 31 m), N-terminal prohormo ne of brain natriuretic peptide ( NT-pro
> WARFARIN/PHENPROCOUMON  Concomitant treatment of riociguat and WARFARIN did not alter prothrombin time induced by the 9 anticoagulant. The concomitant use of riociguat with other cumarin -derivatives (e.g. PHENPROCOUMON) is also not expected to alter prothrombin time.  Lack of pharmacokinetic interactions between riociguat and the CYP2C9 substrate WARFARIN was demonstrated in vivo.
> The impact of  HAART (including different combinations of ABACAVIR, ATAZANAVIR, COBICISTAT, DARUNAVIR, DOLUTEGRAVIR, EFAVIRENZ, ELVITEGRAVIR, EMTRICITABINE, LAMIVUDINE, RILPIVIRINE, RITONAVIR, and TENOFOVIR) on riociguat exposure was investigated in a dedicated study in HIV patients. Concomitant administration of HAART combinations led to an increase in riociguat mean AUC of up to about 
160% and to an approximate 30% increase in mean C max. The safety profile observed in HIV patients taking a single dose of 0.5  mg riocigua t together with different combinations of HIV drugs used in HAART was generally comparable to other patient populations. 
> In vitro, KETOCONAZOLE, cl assified as a strong CYP3A4 and P -glycoprotein (P -gp) inhibitor, has been shown to be a multi -pathway CYP and P -gp/breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) inhibitor for riociguat metabolism and excretion (see section  5.2). Concomitant administration of 400  mg once daily KETOCONAZOLE led to a 150% (range up to 370%) increase in riociguat mean AUC and a 46% increase in mean C max. Terminal half -life increased from 7.3  to 9.2 hours and total body clearance decreased from 6.1  to 2.4 L/h.
> From the recombinant CYP isoforms investigated in vitro CYP1A1 catalysed formation of riociguat’s main metabolite most effectively. The class of tyrosine kinase inhibitors was identified as potent inhibitors of CYP1A1, with ERLOTINIB and GEFITINIB exhibiting the highest inhibitory potency in vitro. Therefore, drug-drug interactions by inhibition of CYP1A1 could result in increased riociguat exposure, especially in smokers (see section  5.2). Strong CYP1A1 inhibitors should be used with caution (see section  4.4).
> Co-administration of the antacid ALUMINIUM hydroxi de / MAGNESIUM HYDROXIDE reduced riociguat mean AUC by 34% and mean C max by 56% (see section  4.2). ANTACIDS should be taken at least 2  hours before, or 1  hour after riociguat. 
> BOSENTAN, reported to be a moderate inducer of CYP3A4, led to a decrease of riociguat steady -state plasma concentrations in PAH patients by 27% (see sections  4.1 and 5.1). For co-administration with BOSENTAN follow the recommendation on dose titration (see section  4.2).
> The concomitant use of riociguat with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. PHENYTOIN, CARBAMAZEPINE, phenobarbitone or St. John’s Wort) may also lead to decreased riociguat plasma concentration.  For co-administration with strong CYP3A4 inducers follow the recommendation on  dose titration (see section 4.2).
