> Vandetanib is an inhibitor of the organic cation 2 (OCT2) transporter. In healthy subjects with wild type for OCT2,  the AUC (0-t) and C max for METFORMIN (OCT2 substrate) were increased by 74% and 
50%, respectively and CL R of METFORMIN was decreased by 52% when given together with vandetanib. Appropriate clinical and/or laboratory monitoring is recommended for patients r eceiving concomitant METFORMIN and vandetanib, and such patients may require a lower dose of METFORMIN. 
> In healthy subjects, the AUC (0-t) and C max for DIGOXIN (P -gp substrate) were increased by 23% and 29% respectively, when given together due to P -gp inh ibition by vandetanib. Furthermore, the bradycardiac effect of DIGOXIN may increase the risk of vandetanib QTc interval prolongation and Torsade de Pointes. Therefore, an appropriate clinical (e.g. ECG) and/or laboratory monitoring is recommended for patie nts receiving concomitant DIGOXIN and vandetanib, and such patients may require a lower dose of DIGOXIN. (For vandetanib monitoring, see section 4.2 Posology and Method of administration and section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions  for use ).
> As regard s other P -gp substrates such as DABIGATRAN, a clinical monitoring is recommended in case of combination with vandetanib. 
> In healthy subjects, the C max for vandetanib was decreased by 15% while the AUC (0-t)  for vandetanib was not affected when given together with OMEPRAZOLE. Neither the C max nor the AUC (0-t) for vandetanib was affected when given together with RANITIDINE. Therefore , no change in dose of vandetanib is required when vandetanib is given with either OMEPRAZOLE or RANITIDINE. 
> If there is no appropriate alternative therapy, not recommended combinations with vandetanib may be made with additi onal ECG monitoring of the QTc interval, evaluation of ELECTROLYTES and further control at onset or worsening of diarrhoea.  9  Results of a pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interaction study indicated that co -administration with ONDANSETRON in healthy pa tients appeared to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of vandetanib, but had a small additive effect on the prolongation of the QTc interval of approximately 
10 ms. Therefore, the concomitant use of ONDANSETRON with vandetanib is not  recommended. I f ONDANSETRON is administered with vandetanib, closer monitoring of serum ELECTROLYTES and ECGs and aggressive management of any abnormalities is required. 
> VITAMIN K ANTAGONISTS  Due to the increased thrombotic risk in patients with cancer, the use of anti coagulation is frequent. In consideration of the high intra -individual variability of the response to anticoagulation, and the possibility of interaction between VITAMIN K ANTAGONISTS and chemotherapy, an increased frequency of the INR (International Norma lised Ratio) monitoring is recommended, if it is decided to treat the patient with VITAMIN K ANTAGONISTS. 
