> There is no experience from controlled clinical trials with concomitant use of tolvaptan and other treatments for hyponatremia such as hypertonic SODIUM CHLORIDE solution, oral sodium formulations, and medicinal products that increase serum sodium concentr ation. Medicinal products with high sodium content such as effervescent analgesic preparations and certain sodium containing treatments for dyspepsia may also increase serum sodium concentration. Concomitant use of tolvaptan with other treatments for hypon atremia or other medicinal products that increase serum sodium concentration may result in a higher risk for developing rapid correction of serum sodium (see section  4.4) and is therefore not recommended during initial treatment or for other patients with very low baseline serum sodium concentrations where rapid correction may represent a risk for osmotic demyelination (see section  4.4).
> Tolvaptan plasma concentrat ions have been increased by up to 5.4 -fold area under time -concentration curve (AUC) after the administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Caution should be exercised in co-administering CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. KETOCONAZOLE, macrolide ANTIBIOTICS, diltiaze m) with tolvaptan (see section  4.4). Co -administration of GRAPEFRUIT JUICE and tolvaptan resulted in a 1.8 -fold increase in exposure to tolvaptan. Patients taking tolvaptan should avoid ingesting GRAPEFRUIT JUICE. 
> In healthy subjects, tolvaptan, a CYP3A4 substrate, had no effect on the plasma concentrations of some other CYP3A4 substrates (e.g. , WARFARIN or AMIODARONE). Tolvaptan increased plasma levels of 7 LOVASTATIN by 1.3 -fold to 1.5-fold. Even though this increase has no clinical relevance, it indicates tolvaptan can potentially increase exposure to CYP3A4 substrates. 
> P-glycoprotein substrates  In-vitro studies indicate that tolvaptan  is a substrate and competitive inhibitor of P -glycoprotein (P-gp). Steady state DIGOXIN concentrations were increased (1.3 -fold in maximum observed plasma concentration [C max] and 1.2 -fold in area under the plasma concentration -time curve over the dosing interval [AUC τ]) when co -administered with multiple once daily 60  mg doses of tolvaptan. Patients receiving DIGOXIN or other narrow therapeutic index P -gp substrates (e.g., DABIGATRAN ETEXILATE) must therefore be managed cautiously and evaluated for excess ive effects when treated with tolvaptan. 
> BCRP and OCT1  Co-administration of tolvaptan (90  mg) with ROSUVASTATIN (5  mg), a BCRP substrate, increased ROSUVASTATIN C max and AUC t of 54  % and 69  %, respectively. If BCRP substrates (e.g., SULFASALAZINE) are co -administered with tolvaptan, patients must be managed cautiously and evaluated for excessive effects of these medicinal products.  If OCT1 substrates (e.g., METFORMIN) are co -administered with tolvaptan, patients must be managed cautiously and evaluated for  excessive effects of these medicinal products. 
> While there does not appear to be a synergistic or additive effect of concomitant use of tolvaptan with loop and thiazide DIURETICS, each class of agent has the potential to lead to severe dehydra tion, which constitutes a risk factor for renal dysfunction. If dehydration or renal dysfunction becomes evident, take appropriate action which may include the need to interrupt or reduce doses of tolvaptan and/or  DIURETICS, increase fluid intake, evaluate  and address other potential causes of renal dysfunction or dehydration. 
> Co-administration with VASOPRESSIN analogues 
