> CYP2C19 inhibitors The effect of a moderate and strong CYP2C19 inhibitor on the PK of mavacamten was not investigated in a clinical drug-drug interaction study. The effect of a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor (e.g., TICLOPIDINE) will be similar to the effect of the CYP2C19 poor metabolising status (see table 1). Co-administration of mavacamten with a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor (OMEPRAZOLE) resulted in a 48% increase in mavacamten AUC inf with no effect on C max in CYP2C19 normal metabolisers. Intermittent administration of a CYP2C19 inhibitor (such as OMEPRAZOLE or ESOMEPRAZOLE) is not recommended (see section 4.4).
> CYP3A4 inhibitors Co-administration of mavacamten with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (ITRACONAZOLE) in CYP2C19 normal metabolisers resulted in an increase in mavacamten plasma concentration of up to 59% and 40% in AUC 0-24 and C max, respectively. Co-administration of mavacamten with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (VERAPAMIL) in CYP2C19 normal metabolisers resulted in an increase in mavacamten plasma concentration of 16% and 52% in AUC inf and C max, respectively. This change was not considered clinically significant.
> Concomitant medicinal product CYP2C19 poor metaboliser phenotype* CYP2C19 intermediate, normal, rapid and ultra-rapid metaboliser phenotype Inhibitors Combined use of a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor  Contra-indicated (see section 4.3) Contra-indicated (see section 4.3) Strong CYP2C19 inhibitor (e.g., TICLOPIDINE, FLUCONAZOLE, FLUVOXAMINE) No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2).
> If CYP2C19 phenotype has not yet been determined: No adjustment of the starting dose of 2.5 mg is needed. The dose should be reduced from 5 mg to 
2.5 mg or pause treatment if on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessm ent (see section  4.2). No adjustment of the starting dose of 5 mg is needed. Initiating or increasing the dose of a moderate inhibitor while on mavacamten treatment: Dose should be reduced by one dose level or pause treatment if on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 
4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). 11 Concomitant medicinal product CYP2C19 poor metaboliser phenotype* CYP2C19 intermediate, normal, rapid and ultra-rapid metaboliser phenotype Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ERYTHROMYCIN, GRAPEFRUIT JUICE, VERAPAMIL, DILTIAZEM) If on medication when starting mavacamten, no adjustment of the starting dose of 2.5 mg is needed.
> Initiating or increasing the dose of a moderate inhibitor while on mavacamten treatment: If patients are receiving a 5 mg dose of mavacamten, their dose should be reduced to 
2.5 mg or if on 2.5 mg pause treatment for 
4 weeks. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section  4.2). No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). Weak CYP2C19 inhibitor (e.g., CIMETIDINE, CITALOPRAM, omeprazolea, ESOMEPRAZOLE) No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment (see section 4.2). Initiating or increasing the dose of a weak inhibitor while on mavacamten treatment: Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and subsequently resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical asses sment  (see section  4.2). Weak CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., CIMETIDINE, ESOMEPRAZOLE, OMEPRAZOLE, PANTOPRAZOLE) If on medication when starting mavacamten, no adjustment of the starting dose of 2.5 mg is needed. 
> Initiating or increasing the dose of weak inhibitor while on mavacamten treatment: If patients are receiving a 5 mg dose of mavacamten, their dose should be reduced to 
2.5 mg or if on 2.5 mg pause treatment for 
4 weeks. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section  4.2). Initiating or increasing the dose of a weak inhibitor while on mavacamten treatment: No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment (see section 4.2). Inducers Strong CYP2C19 inducer and strong CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., rifampicin, APALUTAMIDE, ENZALUTAMIDE, MITOTANE, PHENYTOIN, CARBAMAZEPINE, EFAVIRENZ, St. John’s wort) Initiating or increasing the dose of strong inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Monitor LVOT gradient and LVEF 4 weeks later. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). The maximum dose is 5 mg.
> Discontinuing or decreasing the dose of strong inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Decrease mavacamten by one dose level when on doses 5 mg or higher. Maintain mavacamten dose when on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section  4.2). 12 Concomitant medicinal product CYP2C19 poor metaboliser phenotype* CYP2C19 intermediate, normal, rapid and ultra-rapid metaboliser phenotype Moderate or weak CYP2C19 inducer (e.g., LETERMOVIR, NORETHINDRONE, PREDNISONE) No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment (see section 4.2). Initiating the dose of moderate or weak inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Monitor LVOT gradient and LVEF 4 weeks later. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2).
> Discontinuing a moderate or weak inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Decrease mavacamten by one dose level when on doses 5 mg or higher. Maintain mavacamten dose when on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessme nt (see section  4.2). Moderate or weak CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., PHENOBARBITAL, PRIMIDONE) Initiating or increasing the dose of moderate or weak inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Monitor LVOT gradient and LVEF 4 weeks later. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2).
> Discontinuing or decreasing the dose of moderate or weak inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Decrease mavacamten dose to 2.5 mg or pause treatment if on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 
4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section  4.2). No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment (see section 4.2). 
* Includes patients for whom the CYP2C19 phenotype has not yet been determined. a OMEPRAZOLE is considered a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor at a dose of 20 mg once daily and a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor at a total daily dose of 40 mg.
> Effect of mavacamten on other medicinal products  Mavacamten in vitro  data suggest a potential induction of CYP3A4 substrates. Co-administration of a 
17-day course of mavacamten at clinical relevant exposures in CYP2C19 normal, rapid and ultra-rapid metabolisers did not decrease the exposure to ethinyl oestradiol and NORETHINDRONE, which are the components of typical oral contraceptives and substrates for CYP3A4. Furthermore, co-administration of a 16-day course of mavacamten in CYP2C19 normal metabolisers, at clinical relevant exposures, resulted in a 13% decrease in MIDAZOLAM plasma concentration. This change was not considered clinically significant. 
