> Co-administration of multiple doses of SITAGLIPTIN (50 mg twice daily) and metf ormin (1,000
 mg twicedaily) di d not meaningf ully alter the pharmacokinetics of either sitaglipt in or metf ormin in patientswith type 2 diabetes.Pharmaco kinetic drug interaction studies with JANUMET have not been perf ormed; however, suchstudies have been conducted with the individual
 activ e substanc es, SITAGLIPTIN and metf ormin.Conc omitant use n ot recommended
> Some medicinal products can
 adversely af f ect renal function
, which m ay increase the risk of lacticacidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo
-oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, ACE inhibitors,7angiotensin II receptor
 antagonists and di uretics, e specially LOOP DIURETICS. When starting or using suchproducts in combination
 with METFORMIN, close
 monitori ng of renal f unction is necessary.Concomitant use of medicinal products
 that inter fere with common renal tubular transport systemsinvolved in the re nal elimin ation of  metf ormin
 (e.g., organic cationic transp orter-2 [OCT2 ] / m ultidrugand toxin extrusion [MATE] inhib itors such as RANOLAZINE, VANDETANIB, DOLUTEGRAVIR, and CIMETIDINE)could increase systemic exposure to metf ormin and may increase the ris k f or lact ic acidosis. Considerthe benef its and risks of  c onco mitant us e. Close monitoring of glycaemic control, dose  adjustmentwithin the recommended posology and changes in diabetic treatment should be considered when suchproducts a re co -adminis tered.Glucocor ticoids (given by systemic and local routes) beta -2-agonists, and d iuretics h ave intrinsichypergly caemic ac tivity
. The patient should be inf ormed and more f requent blood GLUCOSE monitoringperf ormed, especially at the beginning of treatment with  such medi cinal products. If
 necessary, thedose of  the ant i-hyperglycae mic m edicinal p roduct should be adjusted durin g therapy with the othermedicinal product and on its discontinuation.ACE-inhibitors may decrease the blood GLUCOSE levels. If  necessary , the dose of theanti-hyperglycaemic medicinal product sho uld be adjust ed du ring thera py with the other medicinalproduct and on its discontinuation.Effects of  other medicinal products on SITAGLIPTIN
> In vitro and clinical data described below suggest th at the ris k for clinically meaningf ul interactionsf ollowin g co-administ ration of  other  medicinal products is
 low.In vitro studies indicated that the primary enzyme responsible for the limited metabolism of  sitagliptinis CYP3A4, with contribution f rom CYP2C8. In patients with normal renal function, metabolism,including via  CYP3 A4, plays only a small role in the cleara nce of SITAGLIPTIN. Metabolism
 may play amore signi f icant role in the elimination of SITAGLIPTIN in the setting of  severe renal impairmen t orend-stage renal disease
 (ESRD).  For this reason, it is  possible tha t potent CYP3A4
 inhibitors (i.e.,KETOCONAZOLE , ITRACONAZOLE, RITONAVIR, CLARITHROMYCIN) could alter the pha rmacokine tics of SITAGLIPTIN inpatients with severe renal impairment
 or ESR D. The ef f ects of  potent CYP
3A4 inhibitors in the settingof  renal impai rment  have  not been assessed in a clinical study.In vitro  transport studies showed that SITAGLIPTIN is a substrate for p-glycoprotein
 and organic aniontransporter -3 (OAT3) . OA T3 med iated tran sport of  sit agliptin was inhibited in vitro by pr oben ecid,although  the risk of clinically meaningful intera ctions is considered to be low
. Concomitantadminist ration of OAT3 inhibitors has not been evaluated in vivo.Ciclospo rin: A study was co nducted to  assess the ef f ect  of  CICLOSPORIN, a potent inhib itor ofp-glycopro tein, on t he pharmacokinetics of
 sitaglip tin. Co-administration of a single 100  mg oral doseof SITAGLIPTIN and a single 600  mg oral dose of CICLOSPORIN increased the AUC and C max of  sitagl iptin byapproxima tely 29  % and 68  %, re spectivel y. These chan ges in sitaglip tin pharmacokinetics were notconsidered to be clinically meaningf ul. The renal clearance of SITAGLIPTIN was not meaningf ully altered.Theref ore, meaningf ul i ntera ctions  would not  be expected  with other p-glycoprotein
 inhibitors .Ef f ects of  SITAGLIPTIN on  other medicinal products
