> 4.5 and 5.1). Patients treated with XARELTO and antiplatelet agents  should only receive concomitant treatment with NSAIDs if the benefit outweighs the bleeding risk. 
> It should be used with caution in ACS and CAD/PAD patients: 
• ≥ 75 years of age if co -administered with ASA alone or with ASA plus CLOPIDOGREL or TICLOPIDINE . The benefit -risk of the treatment should be individually assessed on a regular basis.  
• with lower body weight (<  60 kg) if co-administered with ASA alone or with ASA  plus CLOPIDOGREL or TICLOPIDINE . 
• CAD patients with  severe symptomatic heart failure. Study data indicate that such patients may benefit less from treatment with rivaroxaban (see section  5.1).
> Patients with antiphospholipid syndrome  Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban are not recommended for patients with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. In particular for patients that are triple positi ve (for lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be associated with increased rates of recurrent thrombotic events compared with VITAMIN K antagonist therapy. 
> Patients with CAD/PAD  CAD/PAD patients with previous haemorrhagic or lacunar stroke, or an ischaemic, non -lacunar stroke with in the previous month were not studied  (see section  4.3).  Patients after recent revascularisation procedures of the lower limb due to symptomatic PAD with a previous stroke or TIA were not studied . Treatment with XARELTO 2.5  mg should be avoided in these patients receiving dual antiplatelet therapy. 
> Spinal/epidural a naesthesia or puncture  When neuraxial anaesthesia (spinal/epidural anaesthesia) or spinal/epidural puncture is employed, patients treated with ANTITHROMBOTIC AGENTS for prevention of thromboembolic complications  are at risk of developing an epidural or spinal haematoma which can result in long -term or permanent paralysis. The risk of these events may be increased by the post -operative use of indwelling epidural catheters or the concomitant use of medicinal produc ts affecting haemostasis. The risk may also be increased by traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. Patients are to be frequently monitored for signs and symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g. numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel or bladde r dysfunction). If neurological compromise is noted, urgent diagnosis and treatment is necessary. Prior to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the potential benefit versus the risk in anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagul ated for thromboprophylaxis. There is no clinical experience with the use of XARELTO 2.5  mg and antiplatelet agents in these situations.  Platelet aggregation inhibitors should be discontinued as suggested by the manufacturer’s prescribing information.  To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concurrent use of rivaroxaban and neuraxial (epidural/spinal) anaesthesia or spinal puncture, consider the pharmacokinetic profile of rivaroxaban. Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lumbar puncture is best performed when the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is estimated to be low (see section  5.2). However, the exact timing to reach a sufficiently low anticoagulant effect in each patient is not known. 
> Dosing recommendations befor e and after invasive procedures and surgical intervention  If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, XARELTO 2.5 mg should be stopped at least 
12 hours before the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the phy sician. If a patient is to undergo elective surgery and anti -platelet effect is not desired, platelet aggregation inhibitors should be discontinued as directed by the manufacturer’s prescribing information.  If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased  risk of bleeding should be assessed against the  urgency of the intervention.  XARELTO should be restarted as soon as possible after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention provided the clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established as determined by the treating physician (see section  5.2).
> CYP3A4 and P -gp inhibitors  Co-administration of rivaroxaban with KETOCONAZOLE (400  mg once a day) or RITONAVIR (600  mg twice a day) led to a 2.6  fold / 2.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7  fold / 1.6 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban C max, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which may lead to an increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of XARELTO is not recommended in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with azole -antimycotics such as KETOCONAZOLE, ITRACONAZOLE, VORICONAZOLE and POSACONAZOLE or HIV PROTEASE INHIBITORS. These active substances are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P -gp (see section  4.4). 
> Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either CYP3A4 or P -gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a lesser extent.  CLARITHROMYCIN (500  mg twice a day), for instance , considered as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and moderate P -gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5  fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.4  fold increase in Cmax. The interaction with CLARITHROMYCIN is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high -risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section  4.4).
> ERYTHROMYCIN (500  mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P -gp moderately, led to a 
1.3 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and C max. The interaction with ERYTHROMYCIN is likely  not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high -risk patients.  In subjects with mild renal impairment ERYTHROMYCIN (500  mg three times a day) led to a 1.8  fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6  fold increase in C max when compared to subjects with normal renal function. In subjects w ith moderate renal impairment, e rythromycin led to a 2.0  fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6  fold increase in C max when compared to subj ects with normal renal function. The ef fect of ERYTHROMYCIN is additive to that of renal impairment (see section 4.4).
> FLUCONAZOLE (400  mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4  fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.3  fold increase in mean C max. The intera ction with FLUCONAZOLE is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high -risk patients.  (For patients with renal impairment: see section  4.4).
> Given the limited clinical data available with DRONEDARONE, co-administration with rivaroxaban should be avoided. 
> PTT). ENOXAPARIN did not affect the pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban.  Due to the increased bleeding risk care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with any other anticoagulants (see sections  4.3 and 4.4). 
> NSAIDs/platelet aggregation inhibitors  No clinically relevant prolongation of bleeding time was observed after concomitant administration of rivaroxaban (15  mg) and 500  mg NAPROXEN. Nevertheless, there may be individuals with a more pronounced pharmacodynamic r esponse.  No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when rivaroxaban was co -administered with 500  mg acetylsalicylic acid.  CLOPIDOGREL (300  mg loading dose followed by 75  mg maintenance dose) did not show a pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15  mg) but a relevant increase in bleeding time was 9 observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to platelet aggregation, P -selectin or GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels.  Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal products typically increase the bleeding risk (see section  4.4).
> WARFARIN Converting patients from the vitamin  K antagonist WARFARIN (INR  2.0 to 3.0) to rivaroxaban (20  mg) or from rivaroxaban (20  mg) to WARFARIN (INR  2.0 to 3.0) increased prothrombin ti me/INR (Neoplastin) more than additively (individual INR values up to 12 may be observed), whereas effects on a
> CYP3A4 inducers  Co-administration of rivaroxaba n with the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin led to an approximate 
50% decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases in its pharmacodynamic effects. The concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. PHENYTOIN, carbamazep ine, PHENOBARBITAL or St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum )) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban plasma concentrations. Therefore, concomitant administration  of strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and  symptoms of thrombosis. 
> Other concomitant therapies  No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when rivaroxaban was co -administered with MIDAZOLAM (substrate of CYP3A4), DIGOXIN (substrate of P -gp), ATORVASTATIN (substrate of CYP3A4 and P -gp) or OMEPRAZOLE (proton pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4.  No clinically relevant interaction with food was observed (see section  4.2).
