> Substances that inhibit CYP3A4 may decrease the clearance of gefitinib. Concomitant administration with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 activity (e.g. KETOCONAZOLE, posaconaz ole, VORICONAZOLE, PROTEASE INHIBITORS, CLARITHROMYCIN, TELITHROMYCIN) may increase gefitinib plasma concentrations. The increase may be clinically relevant since adverse reactions are related to dose and exposure. The increase might be higher in individua l patients with CYP2D6 poor metaboliser genotype. Pre -treatment with ITRACONAZOLE (a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor) resulted in an 80% increase in the mean AUC of gefitinib in healthy volunteers. In situations of concomitant treatment with potent inhibitors of C YP3A4 the patient should be closely monitored for gefitinib adverse reactions. 
> Active substances that may reduce gefitinib plasma concentrations  Substances that are inducers of CYP3A4 activity may increase metabolism and decrease gefitinib plasma concentrations and thereby reduce the efficacy of gefitinib. Concomitant medicinal products that induce CYP3A4 (e.g. PHENYTOIN, CARBAMAZEPINE, rifampicin , barbiturates or St John’s wort, Hypericum perforatum ) should be avoided. Pre -treatment with rifampicin (a potent CYP3A4 inducer) in healthy volunteers reduced mean gefitinib AUC by 83% (see section 4.4). 
> H may reduce gefitinib plasma concentrations and thereby reduce the efficacy of gefitinib. High doses of short -acting ANTACIDS may have a similar effect if taken regularly close in time to administration of gefitinib. Concomitant administr ation of gefitinib with RANITIDINE at a dose that caused sustained elevations in gastric p
> Active substances that may have their plasma concentrations al tered by gefitinib  In vitro studies have shown that gefitinib has limited potential to inhibit CYP2D6. In a clinical study  in patients, gefitinib was co -administered with METOPROLOL (a CYP2D6 substrate). This resulted in a 
35% increase in exposure to METOPROLOL. Such an increase might potentially be relevant for CYP2D6 substrates with narrow therapeutic index. When the use of CYP2D6 substrates are considered in  
6 combination with gefitinib, a dose modification of the CYP2D6 substrate should be considered  especially for products with a narrow therapeutic window. 
