> Paracetamol  Paracetamol was used as a model medicinal product to ev aluate the effect of lixisenatide on gastric emptying. Following administration of a single dose of paracetamol 1,000 mg, paracetamol AUC and t1/2 were unchanged whatever the timing of its administration (before or after the lixisenatide injection). When administered 1 or 4 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, C max of paracetamol was decreased by 29% and 31% respectively and median t max was delayed by 2.0 and 1.75 hours respectively. A further delay in t max and a reduced C max of paracetamol have been predicted with the 
20 mcg maintenance dose.  No effects on paracetamol C max and t max were observed when paracetamol was administered 1 hour before lixisenatide.  Based on these results, no dose adjustment for paracetamol is required  but the delayed t max observed when paracetamol is administered 1 -4 hours after lixisenatide should be taken into account when a rapid onset of action is required for efficacy.  5 Oral contraceptives  Following administration of a single dose of an oral contraceptive medicinal product (ethinylestradiol 
0.03 mg/LEVONORGESTREL 0.15 mg) 1 hour before or 11 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the C max, AUC, t1/2 and t max of ethinylestradiol and LEVONORGESTREL were unchanged. Administration of the oral contraceptive 1 hour before  or 4 hours after lixisenatide did not affect AUC and t 1/2 of ethinylestradiol and LEVONORGESTREL,  whereas C max of ethinylestradiol was decreased by 52% and 39% respectively and C max of LEVONORGESTREL was decreased by 46% and 20%, respecti vely and median t max was delayed by 1 to 3 hours. The reduction in C max is of limited clinical relevance and no dose adjustment for oral contraceptives is required.
> ATORVASTATIN  When lixisenatide 20  mcg and ATORVASTATIN 40 mg were co -administered in the m orning for 6  days, the exposure to ATORVASTATIN was not affected, while C max was decreased by 31% and t max was delayed by 
3.25 hours. No such increase for tmax was observed when ATORVASTATIN was administered in the evening and lixisenatide in the morning but the AUC and C max of ATORVASTATIN were increased by 27% and 66%, respectively.  These changes are not clinically relevant and therefore, no dose adjustment for ATORVASTATIN is required when co- administered with lixisenatide. 
> WARFARIN and other COUMARIN derivatives  After concomitant administration of WARFARIN 25  mg with repeated dosing of lixisenatide 20 mcg, there were no effects on AUC or INR (International Normalised Ratio) while C max was reduced by 19% and tmax was delayed by 7 hours. Based on these results, no dose adjustment for WARFARIN is required when co -administered with lixisenatide; however, frequent monitoring of INR in patients on WARFARIN and/or COUMARIN derivatives is recommended at the time of initiation or ending of lixisenatide treatment.
> DIGOXIN After concomitant administration of lixisenatide 20  mcg and DIGOXIN 0.25 mg at steady state, the AUC of DIGOXIN was not affected. The t max of DIGOXIN was delayed by 1.5 hour and the C max was reduced by 
26%. Based on these results, no dose adjustm ent for DIGOXIN is required when co-administered with lixisenatide. 
> RAMIPRIL  After concomitant administration of lixisenatide 20  mcg and RAMIPRIL 5 mg during 6 days, the AUC of RAMIPRIL was increased by 21% while the C max was decreased by 63%. The AUC and  Cmax of the active metabolite (ramiprilat) were not affected. The t max of RAMIPRIL and ramiprilat were delayed by approximately 2.5 hours. Based on these results, no dose adjustment for RAMIPRIL is required when co -administered with lixisenatide. 
