> It should be used with caution in ACS and CAD/PAD patients:  
• ≥ 75 years of age if co-administe red with ASA alo ne or with ASA  plus CLOPIDOGREL or TICLOPIDINE. The benefit-risk of th e treatment should be individually assess ed on a regular basis.  
• with lower body weight (< 60 kg) if co-administered with ASA al one or with ASA plus CLOPIDOGREL or TICLOPIDINE.  
• CAD patients with sever e symptomatic heart f ailure. Study data indicate that such patients may benefit less from treatment with r ivaroxaban (see section 5.1).  
> Patients with antipho spholipid syndrome   
7 Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban  are not recommended for patients with a history of thro mbosis who are diagnosed with antiphospho lipid syndrome. In particular for patients that are triple positive (for lupus anticoagulant, ant icardiolipin antibodie s, and anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be assoc iated with increased rates of recurrent thrombotic e vents compared with VITAMIN K antagonist therapy. 
> CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitors  Co-administratio n of rivaroxaban with KETOCONAZOLE (400 mg once  a day) or RITONAVIR (600 mg twice a day) led to a 2.6 fold / 2.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7 fold / 1.6 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban C max, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which m ay lead to an increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of Rivaroxaban Viat ris is not recommended in patients receiving concomitant systemic tr eatment with azo le-antimycotic s such as KETOCONAZOLE, ITRACONAZOLE, VORICONAZOLE and POSACONAZOLE or HIV PROTEASE INHIBITORS. These  active substanc es are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (see section 4.4).
> Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxab an elimination pa thways, either CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma con centrations to a lesser extent. CLARITHROMYCIN (500 mg twice a day ), for instance, considered a s a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and moderate P-gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 fold increase in mean riv aroxaban AUC and a 1.4 fold increase in Cmax. The interaction with CLARITHROMYCIN is  likely not clinica lly relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high -risk patients. (For patients wi th renal impairment: see section 4.4).  ERYTHROMYCIN (500 mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P-gp moderately , led to a 1.3 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and C max. The interaction with ery thromycin is likely not clinically relevant in most patie nts but can be p otentially sig nificant in high-risk patients.  In subjects with mild renal impai rment ERYTHROMYCIN (500 mg thr ee times a day) led to a 1.8 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in C max when compared to subjects with normal renal function. In subjects with moderate renal impairme nt, ERYTHROMYCIN led to a 2.0 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in C max when compared to subjects with normal renal function.  The effect of eryth romycin is additive t o that of renal impairment (see section 4.4).   FLUCONAZOLE (400 mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A 4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.3 fold increase in mea n Cmax. The interaction with FLUCONAZOLE is likely not clini cally relevant in most patients but can be potentially  significant in high-risk patients. (For patients with  renal impairment: see section  4.4).
> NSAIDs/platelet aggr egation inhibitors  No clinically relevant prolonga tion of bleeding time was observ ed after concomitant  administration of rivaroxaban (15 mg) and 500 mg NAPROXEN. Nevertheless, there ma y be individuals with a more pronounced pharmacodynamic response.   
9 No clinically significant pharmac okinetic or pharmacodynamic in teractions were observed when rivaroxaban was co-administered with 500 mg acetylsalicylic aci d.  CLOPIDOGREL (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg maintenance dose) did not show a pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15 mg) but a rele vant increase in bleeding time was observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to pl atelet aggregation, P-selectin or GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels.  Care is to be taken if  patients are treate d concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal pro ducts typically increase the bleeding risk (see section 4.4).
> WARFARIN  Converting patients from the VITAMIN K antagonist WARFARIN (INR  2.0 to 3.0) to rivaroxaban (20 mg) or from rivaroxaban (20 mg) to WARFARIN (INR 2.0 to 3.0) increased  prothrombin time/INR (Neoplastin) more than additively (i ndividual INR values up to 12 may be obs erved), whereas effects on a
> CYP3A4 inducers  Co-administration of  rivaroxaban with the strong CYP3A4 inducer  rifampicin led to an approximate 
50% decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases i n its pharmacodynamic effects. The concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducer s (e.g. PHENYTOIN, CARBAMAZEPINE, PHENOBARBITAL or St. John’s Wort ( Hypericum perforatum )) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban plasma concentrations. Therefore,  concomitant administration of  strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and sy mptoms of thrombosis. 
> Other concomitant therapies  No clinically significant pharmac okinetic or pharmacodynamic in teractions were observed when rivaroxaban was co-administered with MIDAZOLAM (s ubstrate of CY P3A4), DIGOXIN (su bstrate of P-gp), ATORVASTATIN (substrate of CYP3A 4 and P-gp) or OMEPRAZOLE (prot on pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4 .  No clinically relevant interaction with foo d was observed (see section 4.2).
