> The information in this s ection is based on binding affinity between SUGAMMADEX and other medicinal products, non -clinical experiments, clinical studies and simulations using a model taking into account the pharmacodynamic effect of neuromuscular blocking agents and the pharmacoki netic interaction between neuromuscular blocking agents and SUGAMMADEX. Based on these data, no clinically significant pharmacodynamic interaction with other medicinal products is expected, with exception of the following:  For TOREMIFENE and FUSIDIC ACID d isplacement interactions could not be excluded (no clinically relevant capturing interactions are expected).  For hormonal contraceptives a clinically relevant capturing interaction could not be excluded (no displacement interactions are expected). 
> Interactions potentially affecting the efficacy of other medicinal products (capturing interactions):  Due to the administration of SUGAMMADEX, certain medicinal products could become less effective due to a lowering of the (free) plasma concentrations. If such a situation is observed, the clinician is advised to consider the re -administration of the medicinal product, the administration of a therapeutically equivalent medicinal product (preferably from a different chemical class) a nd/or nonpharmacological interventions as appropriate. 
> Hormonal contraceptives:  The interaction between 4  mg/kg SUGAMMADEX and a progestogen was predicted to lead to a decrease in progestogen exposure (34% of AUC) similar to the decrease seen when a daily  dose of an oral contraceptive is taken 12  hours too late, which might lead to a reduction in effectiveness. For oestrogens, the effect is expected to be lower. Therefore the administration of a bolus dose of SUGAMMADEX is considered to be equivalent to on e missed daily dose of oral contraceptive steroids (either combined or progestogen only). If SUGAMMADEX is administered at the same day as an oral contraceptive is taken reference is made to missed dose advice in the package leaflet of the oral contracepti ve. In the case of non-oral hormonal contraceptives, the patient must use an additional non hormonal contraceptive method for the next 7  days and refer to the advice in the package leaflet of the product.
