> The administration of 6 -MERCAPTOPURINE with food may decrease systemic exposure slightly but this is unlikely to be of clinical significance. T herefore, Xaluprine  may be taken with food or on an empty stomach, but patients should standardise the method of administration. The dose should not be taken with milk or dairy products since they contain xanthine oxidase, an enzyme which metabolises 6–MERCAPTOPURINE and might therefore lead to reduced plasma concentrations of MERCAPTOPURINE.
> Effects of MERCAPTOPURINE on other medicinal products Concomitant administration of yellow fever vaccine is contraindicated, due to the risk of fatal disease in immun ocompromised patients (see section 4.3).
> Inhibition of the anticoagulant effect of WARFARIN, when given with 6-MERCAPTOPURINE, has bee n reported. Monitoring of the INR (International Normalised R atio) value is recommended during concomitant administra tion with oral anticoagulants. 
> Cytotoxic agents may decrease the intestinal absorption of PHENYTOIN. Careful monitoring of the PHENYTOIN s erum levels is recommended. It is possible that the levels of other anti -epileptic medicinal products may also be altered. Serum antiepileptic levels should be closely monitored during treatment with Xaluprine , making dose adjustments as necessary. 
> Effects of other medicinal products on MERCAPTOPURINE When ALLOPURINOL and Xaluprine  are administered concomitantly it is essential that only a quarter of the usual dose of Xaluprine is given since ALLOPURINOL decreases the rate of metabolism of 6-MERCAPTOPURINE   via xanthine oxidase. Also other xanthine oxidase inhibitors, such as FEBUXOSTAT, may decrease the metabolism of me rcaptopurine and concomitant administration is not recommended as data are insufficient to determine an adequate dose reduction. 
> As there is in vitro evidence that aminosalicylate derivatives (eg . OLSALAZINE, MESALAZINE or sulfazalazine) inhibit the TPMT enzyme, which metabolises 6 -MERCAPTOPURINE, they should be administered with caution to patients receiving concurrent Xaluprine  therapy (se e section 4.4). 
