> On the basis of the mechanism of action of febuxostat on XO inhibition concomitant use is not recom mended. Inhibition of XO by febuxostat may cause increased plasma concentrations of these  drugs leading to myelo toxicity . In case of concomitant administration with febuxostat, the dose of MERCAPTOPURINE/AZATHIOPRINE should be reduced to 20% or less of the  previously prescribed dose (see section s 4.4 and 5.3) .  The adequacy of the proposed dose adjustment, which was based on a modelling and simulation analysis from preclinical data in rats, was confirmed by the results of a clinical drug -drug interaction st udy in healthy volunteers, receiving AZATHIOPRINE 100 mg alone and a reduced dose of AZATHIOPRINE (25 mg) in combination with febuxostat (40 or 120 mg). 
> An interaction study in healthy subjects has been performed with febuxostat to  evaluate whether the inhibition of XO may cause an increase in the THEOPHYLLINE circulating levels as reported with other XO inhibitors. The results of the study showed that the co -administration of febuxostat 80  mg QD with THEOPHYLLINE 400  mg single dose  has no effect on the pharmacokinetics or safety of THEOPHYLLINE. Therefore no special caution is advised when febuxostat 80  mg and THEOPHYLLINE are given concomitantly. No data is available for febuxostat 
120 mg.
> Febuxostat metabolism depends on URIDINE Glucuronosyl Transferase (UGT) ENZYMES. Medicinal products that inhibit glucuronidation, such as NSAIDs and PROBENECID, could in theory affect the  elimination of febuxostat. In healthy subjects conc omitant use of febuxostat and NAPROXEN 250  mg twice daily was associated with an increase in febuxostat exposure (C max 
28%, AUC 41% and t 1/2 26%). In clinical studies the use of NAPROXEN or other NSAIDs/Cox -2 6 
> Potent inducers of UGT ENZYMES might possibly lead to incre ased metabolism and decreased efficacy of febuxostat. Monitoring of serum uric acid is therefore recommended 1 -2 weeks after start of treatment with a potent inducer of glucuronidation. Conversely, cessation of treatment of an inducer might lead to increas ed plasma levels of febuxostat. 
> Febuxostat was shown to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 in vitro. In a study in hea lthy subjects,  
120 mg febuxostat  QD resulted in a mean 22% increase in AUC of DESIPRAMINE, a CYP2D6 substrate indicating a potential weak inhibitory effect of febuxostat on the CYP2D6 enzyme in vivo.
> Concomitant ingestion of an antacid containing MAGNESIUM HYDROXIDE and ALUMINIUM hydroxide has been shown to delay absorption of febuxostat (approximately 1 hour) and to cause a 32% decrease in  Cmax, but no significant change in AUC was observed. Therefore, febuxostat may be taken without regard to antacid use. 
