> Co-administration of febuxostat 80 mgand THEOPHYLLINE 400 mgsingle dose in healthy subjects showed absence of any pharmacokinetic interaction (see section 4.5). Febuxostat 80 mgcan be used in patients concomitantly treated with THEOPHYLLINE without risk of increasing THEOPHYLLINE plasma levels. No data is availabl e for febuxostat 120 mg.Liver disorders
> FEBUXOSTAT KRKA contains LACTOSE. Patients with rare hereditary problems of GALACTOSE intolerance, total lactase deficiency or GLUCOSE -GALACTOSE malabsorption should not take this medicine.This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium -free’.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
> MERCAPTOPURINE/azathioprine5On the basis of the mechanism of action of febuxostat on XO inhibition concomitant use is not recommended. Inhibition of XO by febuxostat may cause increased plasma concentrations of these drugs leading to myelotoxicity. In cas e of concomitant administration with febuxostat, the dose of MERCAPTOPURINE/AZATHIOPRINE should be reduced to 20% or less of the previously prescribed dose (see section s4.4 and 5.3).The adequacy of the proposed dose adjustment, which was based on a model ling and simulation analysis from preclinical data in rats, was confirmed by the results of a clinical drug -drug interaction study in healthy volunteers, receiving AZATHIOPRINE 100 mgalone and a reduced dose of AZATHIOPRINE (25mg) in combination with feb uxostat (40 or 120 mg). Drug interaction studies of febuxostat with other cytotoxic chemotherapy have not been conducted. No data is available regarding the safety of febuxostat during other cytotoxic therapy.ROSIGLITAZONE/CYP2C8 substrates
> An interaction study in healthy subjects has been performed with febuxostat to evaluate whether the inhibition of XO may cause an increase in the THEOPHYLLINE circulating levels as reported with other XO inhibitors. The results of the study showed that the co -administration of febuxostat 80 mg
> Febuxostat metabolism depends on URIDINE Glucuronosyl Transferase (UGT) ENZYMES. Medicinal products that inhibit glucuronidation, such as NSAIDs and PROBENECID, could in th eory affect the elimination of febuxostat. In healthy subjects concomitant use of febuxostat and NAPROXEN 250 mgtwice daily was associated with an increase in febuxostat exposure (C max 28%, AUC 41% and t 1/2 
26%). In clinical studies the use of NAPROXEN or other NSAIDs/Cox -2 inhibitors was not related to any clinically significant increase in adverse events.Febuxostat can be co -administered with NAPROXEN with no dose adjustment of febuxostat or NAPROXEN being necessary.Inducers of glucuronidation
> Poten t inducers of UGT ENZYMES might possibly lead to increased metabolism and decreased efficacy of febuxostat. Monitoring of serum uric acid is therefore recommended 1 -2 weeks after start of treatment with a potent inducer of glucuronidation. Conversely, cess ation of treatment of an inducer might lead to increased plasma levels of febuxostat.COLCHICINE/indometacin/HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE/WARFARIN
> Febuxostat was shown to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 in vitro. In a study in healthy subjects, 
120mgfebuxostat QD resulted in a mean 22% increase in AUC of DESIPRAMINE, a CYP2D6 substrate indicating a potential weak inhibitory effect of febuxostat on th e CYP2D6 enzyme in vivo . Thus, co -administration of febuxostat with other CYP2D6 substrates is not expected to require any dose adjustment for those compounds.ANTACIDS
> Concomitant ingestion of an antacid containing MAGNESIUM HYDROXIDE and ALUMINIUM hydroxide has been shown to delay absorption of febuxostat (approximately 1 hour) and to cause a 32% decrease in Cmax, but no significant change in AUC was observed. Therefore, febuxostat may be taken without regard to antacid use.

