> Rare occurrence of hypothyroidism and/or reduced control of hypothyroidism may occur. The mechanism, although not proven, may involve a decreased ab sorption of IODINE salts and/or LEVOTHYROXINE (see section 4.5). 
> ANTIEPILEPTICS patient: Orlistat may unbalance anticonvulsant  treatment by decreasing the absorption of antiepileptic drugs, leading to convulsions (see section 4.5). 
> CICLOSPORIN  A decrease in CICLOSPORIN plasma levels has been observed in a drug -drug- interaction study and also reported i n several case s, when orlistat was administered concomitantly. This can lead to a decrease of immunosuppressive efficacy. The refore the combination is not recommended (see section 4.4). However, if such concomitant use is unavoidable, more frequent monitor ing of ciclosp orin blood levels should be performed both after addition of orlistat and upon discontinuation of orlistat in CICLOSPORIN treated patients. CICLOSPORIN blood levels should be monitored until stabilised. 
> ACARBOSE  In the absence of pharmacoki netic interact ion studies, the concomitant administration of orlistat with ACARBOSE should be avoided. 
> Oral anticoagulants  4 When WARFARIN or other anticoagulants are given in combination with orlistat, international normalised ratio (INR) values should be  monitored (se e section 4.4) .
> AMIODARONE   A slight decrease in plasma levels of AMIODARONE, when given as a single dose, has been obser ved in a limited number of healthy volunteers who received orlistat concomitantly.  In patients receiving amioda rone treatment, the clinical relevance of this effect remains unknown  but may  become clinically relevant in some cases. I n patients  receiving conco mitant AMIODARONE treatment, reinforcement of clinical and ECG monitoring is warranted. 
> Rare occurrence of hypothyroidism and/or reduced control of hypothyroidism may occur. T he mechanism, al though not proven, may involve a decreased absorption of IODINE salts and/or LEVOTHYROXINE (see section 4.4). 
