> THEOPHYLLINE  Co-administration of febuxostat 80  mg and THEOPHYLLINE 400mg single dose in healthy subjects showed absence of any pharmacokinetic interaction (see section 4.5). Febuxostat 80  mg can be used in patients concomitantly tre ated with THEOPHYLLINE without risk of increasing THEOPHYLLINE plasma levels. No data is available for febuxostat 120  mg.
> THYROID disorders  Increased TSH values (>5.5 µIU/m
> MERCAPTOPURINE/AZATHIOPRINE  On the basis of the mechanism of action of febuxostat on XO inhibition concomitant use is not recommended. Inhibition of XO by feb uxostat may cause increased plasma concentrations of these drugs leading to myelotoxicity. In case of concomitant administration with febuxostat, the dose of MERCAPTOPURINE/ AZATHIOPRINE should be reduced to 20%  or less of the previously prescribed dose (se e sections 4.4 and 5.3) The adequacy of the proposed dose adjustment, which was based on a modelling and simulation analysis from preclinical data in rats, was confirmed by the results of a clinical drug -drug interaction study in healthy volunteers, receiv ing AZATHIOPRINE 100 mg alone and a reduced dose of AZATHIOPRINE (25 mg) in combination with febuxostat (40 or 120 mg). 
> THEOPHYLLINE  An interaction study in healthy subjects has been performed with febuxostat to evaluate whether the inhibition of XO may cause an increase in the THEOPHYLLINE circul ating levels as reported with other XO inhibitors. The results of the study showed that the co -administration of febuxostat 80  mg QD with THEOPHYLLINE 400  mg single dose has no effect on the pharmacokinetics or safety of THEOPHYLLINE. Therefore no special caution is advised when febuxostat 80  mg and THEOPHYLLINE are given concomitantly. No data is available for febuxostat 120  mg.
> NAPROXEN and other inhibitors of glucuronidation  Febuxostat metabolism depends on URIDINE Glucuronosyl Transferase (UGT) ENZYMES . Medicinal products that inhibit glucuronidation, such as NSAIDs and PROBENECID, could in theory affect the elimination of febuxostat. In healthy subjects concomitant use of febuxostat and NAPROXEN 250  mg twice daily was associated with an increase in feb uxostat exposure (C max 28%, AUC 41% and t 1/2 
26%). In clinical studies the use of NAPROXEN or other NSAIDs/Cox -2 inhibitors was not related to any clinically significant increase in adverse events. 
> Inducers of glucuronidation  Potent inducers of UGT ENZYMES might possibly lead to increased metabolism and decreased efficacy of febuxostat. Monitoring of serum uric acid is therefore recommended 1 -2 weeks after start of treatment with a potent inducer of glucuronidation. Conversely, cessation of treatment of an inducer might lead to increased plasma levels of febuxostat. 
>  DESIPRAMINE/CYP2D6 substrates  Febuxostat was shown to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 in vitro. In a study in healthy subjects, 
120 mg ADENURIC QD resulted in a mean 22% increase in AUC of DESIPRAMINE, a CYP2D6 substrate indi cating a potential weak inhibitory effect of febuxostat on the CYP2D6 enzyme in vivo. Thus, co-administration of febuxostat with other CYP2D6 substrates is not expected to require any dose adjustment for those compounds. 
> ANTACIDS Concomitant ingestion of an antacid containing MAGNESIUM HYDROXIDE and ALUMINIUM hydroxide has been shown to delay absorption of febuxostat (approximately 1 hour) and to cause a 32% decrease in 6 Cmax, but no significant change in AUC was observed. Therefore, febuxostat may be taken  without regard to antacid use. 
