> DIMETHYL FUMARATE has not been studied in combination with anti -neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies and caution should, therefore, be used during concomitant administration. In multiple sclerosis clinical studies, the concomitant treatment of relapses with a short course of intravenous CORTICOSTEROIDS was not associated with a clinically relevant increase of infection. 
> Concomitant administration of non-live VACCINES according to national vaccination schedules may be considered during dimethyl fumara te therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71 patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis, patients on DIMETHYL FUMARATE 240 mg twice daily for at least 6 months (n=38) or non- pegylated interferon for at least 3 months (n=33), mounted a comparable immune response (defined as ≥2 -fold increase from pre - to post -vaccination titer) to TETANUS TOXOID (recall antigen) and a conjugated meningococcal C polysaccharide vaccine (neoantigen), while the immune response to different serotypes of an unc onjugated 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (T -cell independent antigen) var ied in both treatment groups. A  positive immune response defined as a ≥4 -fold increase in antibody titer to the three VACCINES, was achieved by fewer subjects in both t reatment groups. Small numerical differences in the response to TETANUS TOXOID and pneumococcal serotype 3 polysaccharide were noted in favour of non-pegylated interferon.   No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated vacci nes in patients taking DIMETHYL FUMARATE . Live VACCINES might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should not be given to patients treated with DIMETHYL FUMARATE  unless, in exceptional cases, this potential risk is considered to be outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vacci nating. 
> Evidence from healthy volunteer studies suggests that DIMETHYL FUMARATE -associated flu shing is likely to be prostaglandin mediated. In two healthy volunteer studies, the administration of 325 mg (or equivalent) non-enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid, 30 minutes prior to DIMETHYL FUMARATE , dosing over 
4 days and over 4 weeks, respectively, did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of DIMETHYL FUMARATE. Potential risks associated with acetylsalicylic acid therapy should be considered prior to co-administration with DIMETHYL FUMARATE in patients with Relapsi ng Remitting MS. Long term (> 4 weeks) continuous use of acetylsalicylic acid has not been studied (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
> Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, DIURETICS, non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs  or LITHIUM) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions (e.g. proteinuria  see section 4.8 ) in patients taking DIMETHYL FUMARATE  (see section 4.4 Blood/laboratory tests). 
> Consumption of moderate amounts of alcohol did not alter exposure to DIMETHYL FUMARATE  and was not associated with an increase in adverse reactions. Consumption of large quantities of strong alcoholic drinks (more than 30% alcohol by volume) should be avoided within an hour of taking DIMETHYL FUMARATE, as alcohol may lead to increased frequency of gastr ointestinal adverse reactions.  Medicinal product no longer authorised8  In vitro CYP induction studies did not demonstrate an interaction between DIMETHYL FUMARATE and oral contraceptives. In an in vivo study, co-administration of DIMETHYL FUMARATE  with a combined oral contraceptive (NORGESTIMATE and ethiny lestradiol) did not elicit any relevant change in oral contraceptive exposure. No interaction studies have been performed with oral contraceptives containing other PROGESTOGENS, however an effect of DIMETHYL FUMARATE on their exposure is not expected. 
