> SITAGLIPTIN exposure was unaff ected when coadministered with a single 1.5  mg dose of dulaglutide. Following coadministration with 2 consecutive 1.5  mg doses of dulaglutide, s itagliptin AUC (0-τ) and Cmax decreased by approximately 7.4 % and 23.1 %, respectively . SITAGLIPTIN t max increased approximately 0.5  hours following coadministration with dulaglutide compared to SITAGLIPTIN alone. 
> SITAGLIPTIN can produce up to 80 % inhibition of DPP- 4 over a 24- hour period . Dulaglutide  (1.5 mg) coadministration with SITAGLIPTIN increased dulaglutide exposure and C max by approximately 38  % and 
27 %, respectively, and median t max increased approximately 24  hours. Therefore , dulaglutide does have a high degree of protec tion against DPP-4 inactivation (see section  5.1, Mechanism of a ction). The increased exposure may enhance the effects of dulaglutide on blood GLUCOSE levels .
> Coadministration of 1.5 mg of dulaglutide with ATORVASTATIN decreased C max and AUC (0-∞) up to 70 % and 21 %, respectively, for atorvastat in and its major metabolite  o-hydroxyatorvastatin. The mean t 1/2 of ATORVASTATIN and o -hydroxyatorvastatin were increased by 17  % and 41 %, respectively, following dulaglutide administration. These observations are not clinically relevant. No dose adjustme nt of ATORVASTATIN is necessary when administered with dulaglutide. 
> After coadministration of steady state DIGOXIN with 2 consecutive 1.5  mg doses of dulaglutide, overall exposure (AUC τ) and t max of DIGOXIN were unchanged; and C max decreased by up to 22  %. This change is not expected to have clinical consequences. No dose adjustment is required for DIGOXIN when administered with dulaglutide. 
> Coadministration of multiple dulagl utide  1.5 mg doses with steady state LISINOPRIL caused no clinically relevant changes in the AUC or C max of LISINOPRIL. Statistically significant delays in LISINOPRIL t max of approximately 1 hour were observed on Days  3 and 24 of the study. When a single 1 .5 mg dose of dulaglutide and METOPROLOL were coadministered, the AUC and C max of METOPROLOL increased by19 % and 32 %, respectively. While METOPROLOL t max was delayed by 1  hour, this change was not statistically significant. These changes were not clinically relevant; therefore , no dose adjustment of LISINOPRIL or METOPROLOL is necessary when administered with dulaglutide. 
> Following dulaglutide  (1.5 mg) coadministration, S- and R -WARFARIN exposure and R -WARFARIN C max were unaffected, and S -WARFARIN C max decreased by 22  %. AUC INR increased by 2  %, which is unlikely to be clinically significant, and there was no effect on maximum international normalised ratio response ( INRmax). The time of international normalised ratio response (t
> Following coadministration of multiple 1.5 mg doses of dulaglutide with steady state METFORMIN (immediate release formula [IR]),  METFORMIN AUC τ increased up to 15 % and Cmax decreased up to 
12 %, respectively, with no changes in t max. These changes are consistent with the gastric emptying delay of dulaglutide and within the pharmacokinetic  variability of METFORMIN and thus are not clinically relevant. No dose adjustment for met formin IR is recommended when given with dulaglutide. 
