> P-gp potent inhibitors A single dose interaction study in healthy subjects has shown that CICLOSPORIN (200 and 600 mg) increases C max of aliskiren 75 mg approximately 2.5-fold and AUC approximately 5-fold. The increase may be higher with higher aliskiren doses. In healthy subjects, ITRACONAZOLE (100 mg) increases AUC and C max of aliskiren (150 mg) by 6.5-fold and 5.8-fold, respectively. Therefore, concomitant use of aliskiren and P -gp potent inhibitors  is contraindicated (see section  4.3).
> Fruit juice  and drinks co ntaining plant extracts
 Administration of fruit juice with aliskiren resulted in a decrease in AUC and C max of aliskiren. Co-administration of GRAPEFRUIT JUICE with aliskiren 150 mg resulted in a 61% decrease in aliskiren AUC and co -administration with aliskiren 300 mg resulted in a 38% decrease in aliskiren AUC. Co-administration of orange or APPLE JUICE with aliskiren 150 mg resulted in a 62% decrease in aliskiren AUC or in a 63% decrease in aliskiren AUC, respectively. This decrease is likely due to an inhibition of organic anion transporting polypeptide -mediated uptake of aliskiren by components of fruit juice in the gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, because of the risk of therapeutic failure, fruit juice should not be taken together with aliskiren . The  effect of drinks containing plant extracts (including herbal teas) on the absorption of aliskiren has not been investigated. However, compounds potentially 6 inhibiting organic anion transporting polypeptide- mediated uptake of aliskiren are widely present i n fruits, vegetables, and many other plant products. Therefore, drinks containing plant extracts, including herbal teas, should not be taken together with aliskiren  (see section  4.2)
> Moderate P- gp inhibitors
 Co-administration of KETOCONAZOLE (200 mg) or VERAPAMIL (240 mg) with aliskiren (300 mg) resulted in a 76% or 97% increase in aliskiren AUC, respectively. The change in plasma levels of aliskiren in the presence of KETOCONAZOLE or VERAPAMIL is expected to be within the range that would be achieved if the dose of aliskiren were doubled; aliskiren doses of up to 600 mg, or twice the highest recommended therapeutic dose, have been found to be well tolerated in controlled cli nical studies . Preclinical studies indicate that aliskiren and KETOCONAZOLE co -administration enhances a liskiren gastrointestinal absorption and decreases biliary excretion. Therefore, caution should be exercised when aliskiren is administered with KETOCONAZOLE, VERAPAMIL or other moderate P- gp inhibitors (CLARITHROMYCIN, TELITHROMYCIN, ERYTHROMYCIN, amiodar one).
> Medicinal products affecting serum POTASSIUM levels  Concomitant use of other agents affecting the RAAS, of NSAIDs or of agents that increase serum POTASSIUM levels (e.g. POTASSIUM -sparing DIURETICS, POTASSIUM supplements, salt substitutes containing  POTASSIUM, HEPARIN) may lead to increases in serum POTASSIUM. If co- administration with an agent affecting the level of serum POTASSIUM is considered necessary, routine monitoring of POTASSIUM levels would be advisable. 
