> PEMETREXED is mainly eliminated unchanged renally by tubular secretion and to a lesser extent by 7glomerular filtration. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic substances (e.g., aminoglycoside, LOOP DIURETICS, PLATINUM COMPOUNDS, cyclosporin) could potentially result in delayed clearan ce of PEMETREXED. This combination should be used with caution. If necessary, creatinine clearance should be closely monitored.Concomitant administration of substances that are also tubularly secreted (e.g., PROBENECID, penicillin) could potentially resu lt in delayed clearance of PEMETREXED. Caution should be made when these substances are combined with PEMETREXED. If necessary, creatinine clearance should be closely monitored.In patients with normal renal function (creatinine clear ance ≥ 80 ml/min), high doses of non -steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, such as IBUPROFEN > 1 600mg/day) and acetylsalicylic acid at higher doses ( ≥ 1.3 g daily) may decrease PEMETREXED elimination and, consequently, increase the occurrence of pem etrexed adverse reactions . Therefore, caution should be made when administering higher doses of NSAIDs or acetylsalicylic acid, concurrently with PEMETREXED to patients with normal function (creatinine clearance ≥ 80 ml/min).In patients with mild to mode rate renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance from 45 to 79 ml/min), the concomitant administration of PEMETREXED with NSAIDs (e.g., IBUPROFEN) or acetylsalicylic acid at higher dose should be avoided for 2 days before, on the day of, and 2 days following PEMETREXED administration (see section 4.4).In the absence of data regarding potential interaction with NSAIDs having longer half -lives such as PIROXICAM or ROFECOXIB, the concomitant administration with PEMETREXED in patients with mild to moderate rena l insufficiency should be interrupted for at least 5 days prior to, on the day of, and at least 2 days following PEMETREXED administration (see section 4.4). If concomitant administration of NSAIDs is necessary, patients should be monitored closely for tox icity, especially myelosuppression and gastrointestinal toxicity.PEMETREXED undergoes limited hepatic metabolism. Results from in vitro studies with human liver microsomes indicated that PEMETREXED would not be predicted to cause clinically significant i nhibition of the metabolic clearance of substances metabolised by CYP3A, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, and CYP1A2.Interactions common to all cytotoxics
> Live attenuated VACCINES (except yellow fever, fo r which concomitant use is contraindicated): Risk of systemic, possibly fatal, disease. The risk is increased in subjects who are already immunosuppressed by their underlying disease. Use an inactivated vaccine where it exists (poliomyelitis) (see section 
4.4).

