> DIMETHYL FUMARATE  has not been studied  in combination  with anti-neoplastic  or immunosuppressive  therapies  and caution  should,  therefore,  be used during  concomitant  administration.  In multiple  sclerosis  clinical  studies,  the concomitant  treatment  of relapses  with a short  course  of intravenous  CORTICOSTEROIDS  was not associated  with a clinically  relevant  increase  of infection. 
> Concomitant administration of non -live VACCINES according to national vaccination schedules may be considered during DIMETHYL FUMARATE  therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71  patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis, patients on DIMETHYL FUMARATE  240 mg twice daily for at least 
6 months (n=38) or non -pegylated interferon for at least 3  months (n=33), mounted a comparable immune response (defined as ≥2 -fold increase from pre - to post -vaccination titer) to TETANUS TOXOID (recall antigen) and a conjugated meningococcal C polysaccharide vaccine (neoantigen), while the immune response to different serotypes of an unconjugated 23 -valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (T-cell independent antigen) varied in both treatment groups. A positive immune response defined as a  ≥4-fold increase in antibody titer to the three VACCINES, was achieved by fewer subjects in both treatment groups. Small numerical differences in the resp onse to TETANUS TOXOID and pneumococcal serotype 3 polysaccharide were noted in favour of non -pegylated interferon. 
> No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated VACCINES in patients taking DIMETHYL FUMARATE . Live VACCINES might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should not be given to patients treated with DIMETHYL FUMARATE  unless, in exceptional cases, this potential risk is considered to be outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vacc inating. 
> Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, diure tics, non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs or LITHIUM) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions (e.g. proteinuria see section  4.8) in patients taking DIMETHYL FUMARATE  (see section  4.4 Blood/laboratory tests). 
> Consumption of moderate amounts of alcohol did not alter exposure to DIMETHYL FUMARATE and was not associated with an increase in adverse reactions. Consumption of large quantities of strong alcoholic drinks (more than 30% alcohol by volume) should be avoi ded within an hour of taking DIMETHYL FUMARATE , as alcohol may lead to increased frequency of gastrointestinal adverse reactions. 
