> Patients with clinically significant renal or hepatic impairment might experience more adverse reactions (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). Dosing recommendations to titrate according to individual tolerability must be closely followed. Patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been studied. However, NIMVASTID may be used in this patient population and close monitoring is necessary.Patients with body weight below 50 kg may experie nce more adverse reactions and may be more likely to discontinue due to adverse reactions.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
> As a cholinesterase inhibitor, rivastigmine may exaggerate the effects of succinylchol ine-type MUSCLE RELAXANTS during anaesthesia. Caution is recommended when selecting anaesthetic agents. Possible dose adjustments or temporarily stopping treatment can be considered if needed.In view of its pharmacodynamic effects and possible additive e ffects, rivastigmine should not be given concomitantly with other cholinomimetic substances. Rivastigmine might interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medicinal products (e.g OXYBUTYNIN, TOLTERODINE).Additive effects leading to bradycardia (which may result in syncope) have been reported with the combined use of VARIOUS beta -blockers (including ATENOLOL) and rivastigmine. Cardiovascular beta -blockers are expected to be associated with the greatest risk, but reports have also been received in patients using other beta -blockers. Therefore, caution should be exercised when rivastigmine is combined with beta -blockers and also other bradycardia agents (e.g.class III antiarrhythmic agents, CALCIUM channel antagonists, DIGITALIS GLYCOSIDE, pilocarpin).Since bradycardia constitutes a risk factor in the occurrence of torsades de pointes, the combination of rivastigmine with QT prolongation -or torsades de pointes -inducing medicinal products such as 6antipsychotics i.e. some phenothiazines (CHLORPROMAZINE, LEVOMEPROMAZINE), BENZAMIDES (SULPIRIDE, sultopride, AMISULPRIDE, tiapride, veralipride), PIMOZIDE, HALOPERIDOL, DROPERIDOL, CISAPRIDE, CITALOPRAM, diphemanil, ERYTHROMYCIN IV, halofantrin, mizolastin, METHADONE, PENTAMIDINE and MOXIFLOXACIN should be obse rved with caution and clinical monitoring (ECG) may also be required.No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between rivastigmine and DIGOXIN, WARFARIN, DIAZEPAM or FLUOXETINE in studies in healthy volunteers. The increase in prothrombin time induced by WARFARIN is not affected by administration of rivastigmine. No untoward effects on cardiac conduction were observed following concomitant administration of DIGOXIN and rivastigmine.According to its metabolism, metabolic interactions with other medici nal products appear unlikely, although rivastigmine may inhibit the butyrylcholinesterase mediated metabolism of other substances.

