> Limited pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic studies investigating possible interactions between anagrelide and other medicinal products have been conducted.Effects of other active substances on anagrelide
 In vivo interaction studies in humans have demonstrated that DIGOXIN and WARFARIN do not affect the pha rmacokinetic properties of anagrelide.CYP1A2 inhibitors
 Anagrelide is primarily metabolised by CYP1A2. It is known that CYP1A2 is inhibited by several medicinal products, including FLUVOXAMINE and ENOXACIN, and such medicinal products could theoretically adversely influence the clearance of anagrelide.CYP1A2 inducers
CYP1A2 inducers (such as OMEPRAZOLE) could decrease the exposure of anagrelide (see section 5.2). The consequences on the safety and efficacy profile of anagrelide are not established. Theref ore, clinical and biological monitoring is recommended in patients taking concomitant CYP1A2 inducers. If needed, anagrelide dose adjustment could be made.Effects of anagrelide on other active substances
 Anagrelide demonstrates some limited inhibitory ac tivity towards CYP1A2 which may present a theoretical potential for interaction with other co -administered medicinal products sharing that clearance mechanism e.g., THEOPHYLLINE.
 Anagrelide is an inhibitor of PDE III. The effects of medicinal products with similar properties such as the inotropes MILRINONE, ENOXIMONE, AMRINONE, olprinone and CILOSTAZOL may be exacerbated by anagrelide.6 In vivo interaction studies in humans have demonstrated that anagrelide does not affect the pharmacokinetic properties of d igoxin or WARFARIN.
 At the doses recommended for use in the treatment of essential thrombocythaemia, anagrelide may potentiate the effects of other medicinal products that inhibit or modify platelet function e.g., acetylsalicylic acid.
 A clinical interacti on study performed in healthy subjects showed that co -administration of repeat -dose anagrelide 1 mg once daily and acetylsalicylic acid 75 mg once daily may enhance the anti -platelet aggregation effects of each active substance compared with administration of acetylsalicylic acid alone. In some patients with ET concomitantly treated by acetylsalicylic acid and anagrelide, major haemorrhages occurred. Therefore, the potential risks of the concomitant use of anagrelide with acetylsalicylic acid should be asse ssed, particularly in patients with a high-risk profile for haemorrhage before treatment is initiated.
 Anagrelide may cause intestinal disturbance in some patients and compromise the absorption of hormonal oral contraceptives.Food interactions
 Food delay s the absorption of anagrelide, but does not significantly alter systemic exposure.
 The effects of food on bioavailability are not considered clinically relevant to the use of anagrelide.Paediatric population
