4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Recommendations regarding interactions with Ryeqo  are based on evaluations of interactions for the individual components.  
 Potential for other  medicinal products  to affect the components  of Ryeqo 
 Relugolix  
 Oral P -glycoprotein (P -gp) inhibitors:  Concomitant use of Ryeqo with oral P -gp inhibitors is not recommended. Relugolix is a substrate of P-gp (see section  5.2) and in a n interaction study with erythromycin, a P -gp and moderate  cytochrome  P450 ( CYP ) 3A4 inhibitor, the area under the curve (AUC) and maximum concentration (Cmax) of relugolix were increased by 4.1-fold and 3.8- fold, respectively. Concomitant use of P -gp inhibitors may increase the exposure of relugolix, including certain anti -infective medicinal products (e.g. erythromycin, clarithromycin, gentamicin, tetracycline), anti -funga l medicinal products (ketoconazole, itraconazole), antihypertensive medicinal products (e.g. carvedilol, verapamil), antiarrhythmic medicinal products (e.g. amiodarone, dronedarone, propafenone, quinidine), antianginal medicinal products  (e.g. ranolazine), cyclosporine, human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV) 9 or hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, telaprevir). If concomitant use with once or twice daily oral P -gp inhibitors is unavoidable (e .g. azithromycin), take Ryeqo first, and separa te dosing with the P -gp inhibitor by at least 6 hours and monitor patients more frequently for adverse reactions.   
 Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) and/or  P-gp inducers:  Co-administration of Ryeqo with strong CYP3A4 and/or P -gp inducers is not recommended. In a clinical interaction study with rifampicin, a strong CYP3A4 and P -gp inducer, the C max and AUC of relugolix were  reduced by 23% and 55%, respectively.  Medicinal products  that cause strong CYP3A4 and/or P -gp induction, suc h as anticonvulsants (e.g. carbamazepine, topiramate, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, oxcarbazepine, felbamate), anti -infective medicinal products  (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, griseofulvin); St. John’s wort  (Hypericum perforatum ); bosentan and HIV or HCV protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, boceprevir, telaprevir) and non- nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g. efavirenz), may reduce the plasma concentrations of relugolix and may result in a decrease in therapeutic effects.  
 CYP3 A4 inhibitors  Concomitant use of relugolix with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors devoid of P -gp inhibition (voriconazole) did not increase the exposure of relugolix in a clinically- meaningful manner. Furthermore, in a clinical interaction study, concomitant admini stration with atorvastatin, a weak CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitor, did not change the exposure of relugolix in a clinically meaningful manner.  
 Effect of co -administered medicinal products on relugolix exposure from clinical trials and recommendation s are summari sed in Table 3.  
 Table  3. Effect of co -administered medicinal products on relugolix exposure (AUC 0-∞,Cmax; in order of decreasing magnitude) from clinical trials and recommendations  Interacting drug dose regimen  Relugolix dose regimen  Change in relugolix AUC 0-∞ Change in relugolix Cmax Recommendation  erythromycin  
500 mg QID, multiple doses  40 mg single dose 4.1 -fold ↑  3.8 -fold ↑  Concomitant use of Ryeqo with erythromycin  and other oral P -gp inhibitors is not recommended . 
 If concomitant use with once or twice daily oral P -gp inhibitors is unavoidable (e.g. azithromycin), take Ryeqo first, followed by administration of the P -gp inhibitor at least 6 hours thereafter and monitor patients more f requently for adverse reactions.  azithromycin  
500 mg single dose  120 mg single dose** 1.5 -fold ↑  1.6 -fold ↑  azithromycin  
500 mg single dose 6 hours  after administration of relugolix  1.4 -fold ↑  1.3 -fold ↑  voriconazole  
200 mg BID, multiple doses  40 mg single dose 51% ↑  
 21% ↑ No dose modifications recommended for coadministration of relugolix and CYP3A4 inhibitors devoid of P -gp inhibition . fluconazole  
200 mg QD, multiple doses  40 mg single dose  19% ↑ 44% ↑  atorvastatin  
80 mg QD, multiple doses  40 mg single dose 5% ↓ 22% ↓ 10 rifampicin  
600 mg QD, multiple doses  40 mg single dose 55% ↓ 23% ↓ Coadministration of Ryeqo with rifampicin and other combined P -gp and strong CYP3A4 inducers is not recommended  as the efficacy of the relugolix component of Ryeqo could be reduced.  
*Data given as x -fold change represent a ratio between co -administration and relugolix alone. Data given as % change represent % difference relative to relugolix alone.  
**For further details check Orgovyx Sm 
 PC, effect for the 40  mg dose not investigated, but expected to be larger.  Increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”.  AUC = area under curve; C max= maximum concentration; QD = once daily; BID = twice daily; TID = three times daily; QID = four times daily  
 Estradiol and norethiste rone acetate 
 CYP3A4 i nhibitors:  Medicinal products that inhibit the activity of hepatic drug -metabolising enzymes, e.g. ketoconazole, may increase circulating concentrations of the estrogen and norethist erone components in Ryeqo.  
 CYP enzyme inducers:  The metabolism of estrogens  and progestogens may be increased by concomitant use of substances known to induce drug- metabolising enzymes, specifically cytochrome P450 enzymes, such as anticonvulsants (e.g. phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine) and anti -infectives (e.g. rifampicin , rifabutin, nevirapine, efavirenz).  Ritonavir, telaprevir and nelfinavir, although known as strong inhibitors, are also inducers and may decrease the exposure of estrogens and progestogens.  Herbal preparations containing St John's Wort  (Hypericum perfor atum ) may induce the metabolism of estrogens and progestogens. Clinically, an increase in estrogen metabolism may lead to decreased effectiveness with regard to protection of bone loss . Therefore, long- term concomitant use of liver enzyme inducers with Rye qo is not recommended.  
 Potential for the components of Ryeqo to affect other medicinal products   
 Relugolix : Relugolix is a weak inducer of CYP3A4. After co- administration with daily 40 - mg doses of relugolix, the AUC and C max of midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, were decreased by 18% and 26%, respectively. However, based on the clinical study with midazolam, clinically meaningful effects of relugolix on other CYP3A4 substrates are not expected.  
 Relugolix is an inhibit or of breast cancer resistant protein ( BCRP ) in vitro , therefore, an interaction study was conducted with rosuvastatin, a BCRP and organic  anion  transporting polypeptide  1B1  (OATP1B1 ) substrate. After co -administration with daily 40 -mg doses of relugolix, the AUC and C max of rosuvastatin were decreased by 13% and 23%, respectively. The effects are not considered clinically meaningful and therefore no dose -adjustments of rosuvastatin upon concomitant use are recommended. Clinical effects of Ryeqo on other BCRP substrates have not been evaluated and the relevance for other BCRP substrates is unknown.   
 Relugolix may cause saturation of intestinal P -gp at the 40 mg dose, as relugolix exhibits more than dose proportional pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 10- 120 mg, which could result in increased absorption of co- administered medicines that are sensitive substrates of P -gp. No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokin etics of dabigatran etexilate (P -gp substrate) were observed upon co -administration with relugolix, clinically meaningful effects of relugolix on other P -gp substrates are not expected.  
 Estradiol and norethisterone acetate : 11 Estrogen  and progestogen medicinal products  may affect the metabolism of certain other active substances. Accordingly, plasma concentrations may either increase (e.g. cyclosporin) or decrease (e.g. lamotrigine) with use of Ryeqo. Dose adjustment of these medicinal products  may be necessary.  
 