4.5 Interaction with other medici nal products and other forms o f interaction  
 Pharmacokinetic interactions of other substances on teriflunomi de 
 The primary biotransformation pa thway for teriflunomide is hydr olysis, with oxidation being a minor pathway. 
 Potent cytochrome P450 (CYP) and transporter inducers Co-administration of repeated doses (600 mg once daily for 22 d ays) of rifampicin (a CYP2B6, 2C8, 
2C9, 2C19, 3A inducer), as well as an inducer of the efflux tra nsporters P-glycoprotein [P-gp] and breast cancer resistant protein [BCRP] with teriflunomide (70 m g single dose) resulted in an approximately 40% decrease in ter iflunomide exposure. Rifampici n and other known potent CYP and transporter inducers such as car bamazepine, phenobarbital, phen ytoin and St John’s Wort should be used with caution during the treatment with teriflunomide.  Cholestyramine or activated charcoal It is recommended that patients receiving teriflunomide are not  treated with cholestyramine or activated charcoal because this l eads to a rapid and significan t decrease in plasma concentration unless an accelerated elimination is desi red. The mechanism is thought  to be by interruption of enterohepatic recycling and/or gastrointestinal dialysis of teriflunomide.  Pharmacokinetic interactions of teriflunomide on other substanc es 
 Effect of teriflunomide on CYP2C8 substrate: repaglinide There was an increase in mean repaglinide Cmax and AUC (1.7- and 2.4-fold, respectively), following repeated doses of teriflunomide, suggesting that teriflunomide is an inhibitor of CYP2C8 in vivo . Therefore, medicinal products metabolised by CYP2C8, such as re paglinide, paclitaxel, pioglitazone or rosiglitazone, should be used with caution during treatment with teriflunomide. 8  Effect of teriflunomide on oral contraceptives: 0.03 mg ethinylestradiol and 0.15 mg levonorgestrel There was an increase in mean ethinylestradiol C max and AUC 0-24 (1.58- and 1.54-fold, respectively) and levonorgestrel C max and AUC 0-24 (1.33- and 1.41-fold, respectivel y) following repeated doses of  teriflunomide. While this inter action of teriflunomide is not e xpected to adversely impact the efficacy of oral contraceptives, it shoul d be considered when selecting or adjusting oral contraceptive treatment used in combination with teriflunomide.  Effect of teriflunomide on CYP1A2 substrate: caffeine Repeated doses of teriflunomide decreased mean Cmax and AUC of caffeine (CYP1A2 substrate) by 
18% and 55%, respectively, suggesting that teriflunomide may be  a weak inducer of CYP1A2 in vivo . Therefore, medicinal products me tabolised by CYP1A2 (such as du loxetine, alosetron, theophylline and tizanidine) should be used with caution during treatment wi th teriflunomide, as it could lead to the reduction of the efficacy of these medicinal products. 
 Effect of teriflunomide on warfarin Repeated doses of teriflunomide had no effect on the pharmacoki netics of S-warfarin, indicating that teriflunomide is not an inhibito r or an inducer of CYP2C9. Howe ver, a 25% decrease in peak international normalised ratio (IN R) was observed when teriflun omide was co-administered with warfarin as compared with warfari n alone. Therefore, when warfa rin is co-administered with teriflunomide, close INR follow-up and monitoring is recommende d. 
 Effect of teriflunomide on organic anion transporter 3 (OAT3) substrates There was an increase in mean cefaclor Cmax and AUC (1.43- and 1.54-fold, respectively), following repeated doses of teriflunomide, suggesting that teriflunomide is an inhibitor of OAT3 in vivo . Therefore, when teriflunomide is co-administered with substrate s of OAT3, such as cefaclor, benzylpenicillin, ciprofloxacin , indometacin, ketoprofen, furos emide, cimetidine, methotrexate, zidovudine, caution is recommended.  Effect of teriflunomide on BCRP and /or organic anion transporting polypeptide B1 and B3 (OATP1B1/B3) substrates There was an increase in mean rosuvastatin Cmax and AUC (2.65- and 2.51-fold, respectively), following repeated doses of terif lunomide. However, there was n o apparent impact of this increase in plasma rosuvastatin exposure on the HMG-Co 
 A reductase activity.  For rosuvastatin, a dose reduction by 50% is recommended for co-adm inistration with teriflunomide.  For other substrates of BCRP (e.g., methotrexate, topotecan, sulfasal azine, daunorubicin, doxorubic in) and the OATP family especially HMG-Co reductase inhibitors (e. g., simvastatin, atorvastatin, p ravastatin, methotrexate, nateglinide, repaglinide, rifampicin) concomita nt administration of teriflun omide should also be undertaken with caution. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and sym ptoms of excessive exposure to the medicinal products and reduction of the dose of these medicinal  products should be considered. 
 
