4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Other antiparkinsonian medicinal products : To date there has been no indication of interactions that would preclude concurrent use of standard antiparkinsonian medicinal products with Corbilta therapy. Entacapone in high doses may affect the absorption of carbidopa. However, no interaction with carbidopa has been observed with the recommended treatment schedule (200 mg of entacapone up to 
10 times daily). Interactions between entacapone and selegiline have been investigated in repeated dose studies in Parkinson's disease patients treated with levo dopa/DDC inhibitor and no interaction was observed. When used with Corbilta , the daily dose of selegiline should not exceed 10 mg.Caution should be exercised when the following active substances are administered concomitantly with levodopa therapy.Antihypertensives : Symptomatic postural hypotension may occur when levodopa is added to the treatment of patients already receiving antihypertensives. Dose adjustment of the antihypertensive agent may be required.Antidepressants: Rarely, reactions including hypertension and dyskinesia have been reported with the concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants and levodopa/carbidopa. Interactions between entacapone and imipramine and between entacapone and moclobemide have been investigated in single dose studies in healthy volunteers. No pharmacodynamic interactions were observed. A significant number of Parkinson's disease patients have been treated with the combination of levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone with several active substances including MAO -A inhibito rs, tricyclic antidepressants, noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors such as desipramine, maprotiline and venlafaxine and medicinal products that are metabolised by COMT (e.g. catechol -structured compounds, paroxetine). No pharmacodynamic interactions have bee n observed. However, caution should be exercised when these medicinal products are used concomitantly with Corbilta (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).Other active substances: Dopamine receptor antagonists (e.g. some antipsychotics and antiemetics), phenytoin an d papaverine may reduce the therapeutic effect of levodopa. Patients taking these medicinal products with Corbilta should be carefully observed for loss of therapeutic response.Due to entacapone's affinity to cytochr ome P450 2C9 in vitro (see section 5.2), Corbilta may potentially interfere with active substances whose metabolism is dependent on this isoenzyme, such as S-warfarin. However, in an interaction study with healthy volunteers, entacapone did not change the plasma levels of S -warfarin, while the AUC for R -warfarin increased on average by 18% [CI 9011–
26%]. The INR values increased on average by 13% [CI 906–19%]. Thus, a control of INR is recommended when Corbilta is initiated for patients receiving warfarin.Other forms of interactions: Since levodopa com petes with certain amino acids, the absorption of Corbilta may be impaired in some patients on high protein diet.Levodopa and entacapone may form chelates with iron in the gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, Corbilta and iron preparations should be taken at least 2 –3 hours apart (see section 4.8).In vitro data: Entacapone binds to human albumin binding site II which also binds several other medicinal products, including diazepam and ibuprofen. According to in vitro studies, significant displacement is no t anticipated at therapeutic concentrations of the medicinal products. Accordingly, to date there has been no indication of such interactions.
