4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Pharmacological interactions 
 Caution should be exercised in coadministration of fesoterodine with other antimuscarinic sand medicina l products with anticholinergic properties (e.g. amantadine, tri -cyclic antidepressants, certain neuroleptics) as this may lead to more pronounced therapeutic -and side -effects (e.g. constipation, dry mouth, drowsiness, urinary retention).Fesoterodine ma y reduce the effect of medicinal products that stimulate the motility of the gastro -intestinal tract, such as metoclopr amide.Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 In vitro data demonstrate that the active metabolite of fesoterodine does not inhibit CYP1A2, 2B6, 
2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, or 3A4, or induce CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19, or 3A4 at clinically relevant plasma concentrations. Thus fesoterodine is unlikely to alter the clearance of medicinal products that are metabolised by these enzymes.CYP3A4 inhibitors 
 Potent CYP3A4 inhibitors 
 Following inhibition of CYP3A4 by co -administration of ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily, C max and AUC of the active metabolite of fesoterodine increased 2.0 and 2.3 -fold in CYP2D6 extensive metabolisers and 2.1 and 2.5 -fold in CYP2D6 poor metabolisers, respectively. Therefore, the maximum dose of fesoterodine should be restricted to 4 mg when used concomitantly with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir (and all ritonavir boosted PI -regimens), saquin avir and telithromycin (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors 
 Following blockade of CYP3A4 by coadministration of the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor fluconazole 
200mg twice a day for 2 days, C maxand AUC of the active metabolite of fesoterodine increased approximately 19% and 27%, respectively. No dosing adjustments are recommended in the presence of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., erythromycin, fluconazole, diltia zem, verapamil and grapefruit juice).Weak CYP3A4 inhibitors 
 The effect of weak CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. cimetidine), was not examined; it is not expected to be in excess of the effect of moderate inhibitor.CYP3A4 inducers 
 Following induction of CYP3A4 b y coadministration of rifampicin 600 mg once a day, C maxand AUC of the active metabolite of fesoterodine decreased by approximately 70% and 75%, respectively, after oral administration of fesoterodine 8 mg.Induction of CYP3A4 may lead to subtherapeutic plasma levels. Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. carbamazepine, rifampicin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, St John’s Wort) is not recommended (see section 4.4).CYP2D6 inhibitors 
 The interaction with CYP2D6 inhibitors was not tested clinically. Mean C maxand AUC of the active metabolite are 1.7 and 2 -fold higher, respectively, in CYP2D6 poor metabolisers as compared to extensive metabolisers. Co -administration of a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor may result in increased exposure and adverse events. A dose redu ction to 4 mg may be needed (see section 4.4).6Oral contraceptives 
 Fesoterodine does not impair the suppression of ovulation by oral hormonal contraception. In the presence of fesoterodine there are no changes in the plasma concentrations of combined oralcontraceptives containing ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel.Warfarin 
 A clinical study in healthy volunteers has shown that fesoterodine 8 mg once daily has no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics or the anticoagulant activity of a single dose ofwarfarin.Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
