4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 The safety of deferasirox  in combination with other iron chelators has not been established. Therefore, it must not be combined with other iron chelator therapies  (see section 4.3).  
 Interaction with food  The Cmax of deferasirox film-coated tablets was increased (by 29%)  when taken with a high -fat meal . EXJADE film-coated tablets may  be taken either on an empty stomach  or with a light meal , preferably at the same time each day (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
 Agents that m ay decrease EXJADE systemic exposure  Deferasirox metabolism depends on UGT enzymes. In a healthy volunteer study, the concomitant administration of deferasirox  (single dose of 30  mg/kg , dispersible tablet formulation ) and the potent UGT inducer, rifampicin , (repeated dose of 600  mg/day) resulted in a decrease of deferasirox exposure by 44% (90% CI: 37% - 51%). Therefore, the concomitant use of EXJADE with potent UGT inducers (e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) may result in  a decrease in EXJADE efficacy. The patient’s serum ferritin should be monitored during and after the combination, and the dose of EXJADE adjusted if necessary.  
 Cholestyramine significantly reduced the deferasirox exposure in a mechanistic study to determ ine the degree of enterohepatic recycling (see section 5.2).  
 13 Interaction with midazolam and other agents metaboli sed by CYP3A4  In a healthy volunteer study, the concomitant administration of deferasirox dispersible tablets  and midazolam (a CYP3A4 probe su bstrate) resulted in a decrease of midazolam exposure by 17% (90% CI: 8% - 26%). In the clinical setting, this effect may be more pronounced. Therefore, due to a possible decrease in efficacy, caution should be exercised when deferasirox is combined with substances metabolised through CYP3A4 (e.g. ciclosporin, simvastatin, hormonal contraceptive agents, bepridil, ergotamine).  
 Interaction with repaglinide and other agents metaboli sed by CYP2C8  In a healthy volunteer study, the concomitant administration of deferasirox as a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor (30  mg/kg daily , dispersible tablet formulation ), with repaglinide, a CYP2C8 substrate, given as a single dose of 0.5  mg, increased repaglinide AUC a nd C max about 2.3 -fold (90% CI [2.03 -2.63]) and 1.6 -fold (90% CI [1.42 -1.84]), respectively. Since the interaction has not been established with dosages higher than 0.5  mg for repaglinide, the concomitant use of deferasirox with repaglinide should be avoid ed. If the combination appears necessary, careful clinical and blood glucose monitoring should be performed (see section 4.4). An interaction between deferasirox and other CYP2C8 substrates like paclitaxel cannot be excluded.  
 Interaction with theophylline  and other agents metaboli sed by CYP1A2  In a healthy volunteer study, the concomitant administration of deferasirox  as a CYP1A2 inhibitor (repeated dose of 30  mg/kg/day , dispersible tablet formulation ) and the CYP1A2 substrate theophylline (single dose of 120 mg) resulted in an increase of theophylline AUC by 84% (90% CI: 
73% to 95%). The single dose C max was not affected, but an increase of theophylline C max is expected to occur with chronic dosing. Therefore, the concomitant use of deferasirox  with theophylline is not recommended. If deferasirox  and theophylline are used concomitantly, monitoring of theophylline concentration and theophylline dose reduction should be considered. An interaction between deferasirox  and other CYP1A2 substrates cannot be excluded. For substances that are predominantly metabolised by CYP1A2 and that have a narrow therapeutic index (e.g. clozapine, tizanidine), the same recommendat ions apply as for theophylline.  
 Other information  The concomitant administration of deferasirox  and aluminium -containing antacid preparations has not been formally studied. Although deferasirox has a lower affinity for aluminium than for iron, it is not recommended to take deferasirox  tablets with aluminium -containing antacid preparations.  
 The concomitant administration of deferasirox with substances that have known ulcerogenic potential, such as NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid at high dosage), cor ticosteroids or oral bisphosphonates may increase the risk of gastrointestinal toxicity (see section 4.4). The concomitant administration of deferasirox with anticoagulants may also increase the risk of gastrointestinal haemorrhage. Close clinical monitori ng is required when deferasirox is combined with these substances.  
 Concomitant administration of deferasirox and busulfan resulted in an increase of busulfan exposure (AUC), but the mechanism of the interaction remains unclear. If possible, evaluation of the pharmacokinetics (AUC, clearance) of a busulfan test dose should be performed to allow dose adjustment.  
 
  14 