4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Effect of other medicinal products on levofloxacin 
 Levofloxacin is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine and metabolism is minimal (see section 5.2). Interactions with CYP inhibitors or inducers are thus not expected.Theophylline, fenbufen or similar non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
 No pharmacokinetic interactions of levofloxacin were found with theophylline in a clinical study. However, a pronounced lowering of the cerebral seizure threshold may occur when quinolones are given concurrently with theophylline, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or other substances which lower the seizure threshold. Levofloxacin concentrations were about 13% higher in the presence of fenbufen than when administered alone. Probenecid and cimetidine 
 The renal clearance of levofloxacin was reduced by cimetidine (24%) and probenecid (34%). This is because both active substances are capable of blocking the renal tubular secretion of levofloxacin. However, at the tested doses in the study, the statistically significant kinetic differences are unlikely to be of clinical relevance. Caution should be exercised when levofloxacin is coadministered with active substances that affect the tubular renal secretion such as probenecid and cimetidine, especially in patients with renal impairment.Other relevant information 
 Clinical pharmacology studies have shown that the pharmacokinetics of levofloxacin were not affected to any clinically relevant extent when levofloxacin was administered together with the following active substances: calcium carbonate, digoxin, glibenclamide and ranitidine.Effect of levofloxacin on other medicinal products CYP1A2 substrates 
 In a pharmacokinetic interaction study, levofloxacin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of theophylline (which is a probe substrate for CYP1A2) indicating that levofloxacin is not a CYP1A2 inhibitor. CYP2C9 substrates 
 An in vitro study indicated a low potential for interaction between levofloxacin and CYP2C9 substrates. Interactions mediated by effects on transporters 
 In vitro studies demonstrated that inhibition of the key transporters associated with drug disposition in the kidney (organic anion-transporting polypeptide-1B1 (OATP1B1), OATP1B3, organic anion transporter-1 (OAT1), OAT3 and organic cationic transporter-2 (OCT2)) at exposures following inhalation of 240 mg levofloxacin twice daily is low. Furthermore, clinical data do not suggest interaction with P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates such as digoxin.Ciclosporin 
 The half-life of ciclosporin was increased by 33% when coadministered with levofloxacin.Vitamin K antagonists 
 Increased coagulation tests (PT/INR) and/or bleeding, which may be severe, have been reported in patients treated with levofloxacin in combination with a vitamin K antagonist (e.g. warfarin). Coagulation tests, therefore, should be monitored in patients treated with vitamin K antagonists (see section 4.4).8Active substances known to prolong the QT interval 
 Levofloxacin should be used with caution in patients receiving active substances known to prolong the QT interval (e.g. Class IA and III antiarrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants, macrolides, antipsychotics).
