4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Dimethyl fumarate  has not been  studied in combination with anti-neoplastic or immunos uppressive therapies and
 cauti on should, theref ore, be used during concomita nt administrati on. In multiple scler osis clinical st udies,  the concomita nt treatment of relapses with a short  course of intravenous  corticoster oids was not  associat ed with a clinically  relevant increase of infection.  
 Concomitant administrati on of non-live vaccines according to national vaccination schedules may be considered  during dimethyl fumarate  therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71 patients with relapsing remitting  multiple  scler osis, patie nts on dimethyl fumarate  240 mg twice  daily for at least 
6 months (n=38) or non -pegylated  interfer on for at least 3 months (n=33), mounted  a comparable  immune  respo nse ( defined as ≥ 2-fold increa se from pre- to post -vaccination titer)  to tetanus toxoid (recall  antigen) and a con jugated  meningoc occal  C polysaccha ride vaccine (neoantigen), while the immune response to differe nt serotypes of an unconjugated 23-valent  pneumococcal  polysacchari de vaccine (T-cell inde pendent antigen) varied  in both treatm ent groups.  A positiv e immune  response defined as a ≥4-fold increase  in antibody  titer to the three vaccines, was achieved by fewer  subjects in both treat ment groups.  Small  numeri cal diffe rences in the response  to tetanus toxoid and pneumococcal ser otype 3 pol ysacchari de were  noted  in favour of non-pegylated  interfer on. 
 No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated  vaccines in patie nts taking dimethyl fumarate.  Live vaccines might carry  an increased  risk of clinical  infecti on and should  not be given to patie nts treated with dimethyl fumarate  unless,  in excep tional  cases,  this potential risk is considered  to be outwei ghed by the risk to the individual of not vaccinating. 
 During treatme nt with dimethyl fumarate, simultaneous use of other fumaric  acid derivatives (topical  or system ic) should  be avoided. 
 In humans, dimethyl fumarate is extensively meta bolised  by esteras es before it reaches the systemic circulation  and further meta bolism  occurs  through the tricar boxy lic acid cycle, with no involvement of the cytochrome P450 (CYP)  system.  Potential drug interacti on risks were  not identified  from in vitro CYP -inhibition and induc tion studies,  a p-glycoprotein  study, or studies of the protein  binding of dimet hyl fumarate  and monomet hyl fumara te (a primary  metabolite  of dimet hyl fumarate).  
 Commonly used medicinal products in patients with multiple sclerosis, intramuscular  interferon beta -
1a and glatira mer acetate,  were clinically  tested  for potential interacti ons with dimet hyl fumarate and did not alter the pharmac okinetic  profile of dimet hyl fumarate.  
 Evidence from  healt hy volunteer  studies suggests that dimethyl fumarate -associated  flushing is likely to be pr ostag landin mediate d. In two healt hy volunteer  studies, the administration of 325 mg (or equivalent) non- enteric  coated  acetylsalicylic acid, 30 minutes prior to dimethyl fumarate,  dosing over 
4 days and over 4 wee ks, respectively, did not alter the pharmacok inetic  profile of dimethyl fumarate.  Potential risks assoc iated with  acetylsalicylic acid therapy should  be considered  prior to co-administration with dimethyl fumarate  in patie nts with Relapsing Remitting  MS. Long term (> 4 wee ks) continuous  use of acetylsalicyl ic acid h as not been  studied  (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Medicinal product no longer authorised8  Concurrent therapy  with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, diuretics,  non- steroidal anti-inflam matory drugs or lithium) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions (e. g. proteinuria see section 4.8) in patients taking dimethyl fumarate  (see section 4.4 Blood/la borat ory tests).  
 Consumption of moderate  amounts  of alcohol  did not alter expos ure to dimet hyl fumarate and was not associa ted with an increase  in adverse reacti ons. Consumption of large quantities  of strong alcoholic drinks (more than 30% alcohol by volume)  should  be avoided within an hour of taking dimethyl fumarate,  as alc ohol may lead to increa sed frequency of gastrointesti nal adverse reacti ons. 
 In vitro  CYP  inducti on studies did not demonstrate  an interacti on between  dimethyl fumarate  and oral contrace ptives. In an in vivo  study, co-administration  of dimethyl fumarate  with a combined oral contracepti ve (norgestimate  and ethinyl estradi ol) did not elicit any relevant change in oral contrace ptive exposure. 
 No interacti on studies  have been  performed  with oral contracep tives contai ning other progestogens, howe ver an effect  of dimethyl fumarate  on their expos ure is not expected.  
 Paediatric  populati on 
 Interacti on studies have only been  performed  in adults. 
 
