4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 Potential interactions affecting olanz apine  Since olanzapine is metabolised by CYP1A2, substances that can specifically induce or inhibit this  isoenzyme may affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine.  
 Induction of CYP1A2  The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking and carbamazepine,  which may lead to  reduced olanzapine concentrations. Only slight to moderate increase in olanzapine clearance has been  observed. The clinical consequences are likely to be limited, but clinical monitoring is recommended  and an increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see section 4.2).  
 Inhibition of CYP1A2  Fluvoxamine, a specific CYP1A2 inhibitor, has been shown to significantly inhibit the metabolism of  olanzapine. The mean increase in olanzapine C max following fluvoxamine was 54 % in f emale non -smokers and 77 % in male smokers. The mean increase in olanzapine AUC was 52 % and 108 %  respectively. A lower starting dose of olanzapine should be considered in patients who are using  fluvoxamine or any other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as ciproflo xacin. A decrease in the dose of olanzapine should be considered if treatment with an inhibitor of CYP1A2 is initiated.  
 Decreased bioavailability  Activated charcoal reduces the bioavailability of oral olanzapine by 50 to 60 % and should be taken at least 2 hours before or after olanzapine.  
 Fluoxetine (a CYP2D6 inhibitor), single doses of antacid (aluminium, magnesium) or cimetidine have  not been found to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine.  
 Potential for olanzapine to affect other med icinal products  7 Olanzapine may antagonise the effects of direct and indirect dopamine agonists.  
 Olanzapine does not inhibit the main CYP450 isoenzymes in vitro  (e.g. 1A2, 2D6, 2C9, 2C19, 3A4).  Thus no particular interaction is expected as verified through  in vivo  studies where no inhibition of  metabolism of the following active substances was found: tricyclic antidepressant (representing  mostly CYP2D6 pathway), warfarin (CYP2C9), theophylline (CYP1A2) or diazepam (CYP3A4 and  
2C19).  
 Olanzapine showed no in teraction when co -administered with lithium or biperiden.  
 Therapeutic monitoring of valproate plasma levels did not indicate that valproate dosage adjustment is  required after the introduction of concomitant olanzapine.  
 General CNS activity  Caution shoul d be exercised in patients who consume alcohol or receive medicinal products that can  cause central nervous system depression.  
 The concomitant use of olanzapine with anti -Parkinsonian medicinal products in patients with  Parkinson's disease and dementia is  not recommended (see section 4.4).  
 QTc interval  Caution should be used if olanzapine is being administered concomitantly with medicinal products  known to increase QTc interval (see section 4.4).  
 
