4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No specific drug interaction studies have been performed with SIMBRINZA.  
 SIMBRINZA is contraindicated in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors  and in patients on antidepressants which affect noradrenergic  transmission (e.g. tricyclic antidepressants and mia nserin), (see section  4.3). Tricyclic antidepressants may blunt the ocular hypotensive response of SIMBRINZA.  
 Caution is advised due to the  possibility of an additive or potentiating effect with CNS depressants (e.g. alcohol, barbiturates, opiates, sedatives or anaesthetics) . 
 No data on the level of circulating catecholamines after SIMBRINZA administration are available. However, c aution is advised in patients taking medicinal products which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines (e.g. chlorpromazine, methylphenidate, reserpine , serotonin -norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ). 
 Alpha adrenergic agonists (e. g. brimonidine tartrate), as a class, may reduce pulse and blood pressure. Following administration of SIMBRINZA, small decreases in blood pressure were observed in some patients. Caution is advised when using medicinal products such as antihypertensives a nd/or cardiac glycoside s concomitantly with SIMBRINZA.  
 Caution is advised when initiating (or changing the dose of) concomitant systemic medicinal products (irrespective of pharmaceutical form) which may interact with α -adrenergic agonists or interfere wi th their activity , i.e. agonists or antagonists of the adrenergic receptor (e.g. isoprenaline, prazosin).  
 Brinzolamide  is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and, although administered topically, is absorbed systemically. Acid -base disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. The potential for interactions must be considered in patients receiving SIMBR INZA . 
 There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and topical brinzolamide. The concomitant administration of SIMBRINZA and oral carb onic anhydrase inhibitors is not recommended.  
 The cytochrome P -450 isozymes responsible for metabolism of brinzolamide include CYP3A4  (main), CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8  and CYP2C9. It is expected that inhibitors of CYP3A4  such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, c lotrimazole, ritonavir and troleandomycin will inhibit the metabolism of brinzolamide by C YP3A4. Caution is advised if CYP3A4  inhibitors are given concomitantly. However, accumulation of brinzolamide is unlikely as renal elimination is the major route. Brinzolamide is not an inhibitor of cytochrome P -450 isozymes.  
 6 