4.5 Interaction  with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Daptomycin undergoes little to no Cytochrome P450 (CYP450)
-mediated metabolism
. It is unlikelythat daptomycin will inhibit or induce the met abolism of  medicinal products  metabolised by the P45
0system.Interaction studies for Cubicin were performed  with aztreonam, tobramycin, warf arin and probenecid.Daptomycin had no eff ect on the pharmacokinetics of warf arin or probenecid, nor did these medicinalproduct s alter the pharmacokinetics of daptomycin. The pharmacokinetics of daptomycin were
 notsignif icantly altered by aztreonam.8Although small changes in the pharmacokinetics of daptomycin and tobramycin were observed duringco-administr ation by intravenous inf usion over a 
30-minute period using a  Cubicin dos e of  2  mg/kg,the changes were not statistically signif icant. The interaction between daptomycin and tobramycinwith an approved
 dose of  Cubicin is unknown.
 Caution is warranted when Cubicin is co -administ eredwith tobra mycin.Experience with the concomitant administration of  Cubicin and wa rfarin is limit ed. Studies of 
 Cubicin with anticoagulants other than warfarin have not been conducted. Anticoagulant activity inpatients receiving Cubicin  and warf arin should be monitored f or the first several days af te r therapywith Cubicin is initiated.There is limited experience regarding concomitant administration of daptomycin with other medicinalproducts that may trigger myopathy
 (e.g. HMG -Co 
 A redu ctase inhibito rs)
. However, some cases ofmarked rise s in CPK levels and cases of rhabdomyolysis occu rred in adult patients taking one of  thesemedicinal products at the same time as Cubicin . It is recommended that other medicinal productsassociate d with myopathy should if  possible be temporarily discontinued during treatment with 
 Cubicin  unless the bene fits of  concomitant administration outweigh the risk. If  co
-administrationcannot be avoided, CPK levels should be measured more frequently than once weekl y and patientsshould be closely monitored for any signs or symptoms that might represent myopathy. Seesections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.3.Daptomycin is primarily cleared by renal f iltration and so plasma levels may be increased duringco-administration with medi cinal products  that reduce renal f iltration (e.g. NSAIDs and COX-2inhibitors). In addition, there is a potential f or a pharmacodynamic interaction to occur duringco-administration due to additive renal ef f ects. Theref ore, caution is advised when daptomyc in isco-admin istered with any other medicinal product known to reduce renal f iltration.During post–marketing surveillance, cases of  interf erence between daptomycin and particular reagentsused in some assays of prothrombin time/international normalised ratio (PT/INR)
 have been reported.This interf erence led to a  f alse  prolongation of  PT and elevation of INR. If  unexplained abnormalitiesof  PT/INR are observed in patients taking daptomycin, consideration should be given to a possible invitro  interaction  with the labo ratory test
. The possibility of  erroneous results may be minimised bydrawing samples for PT or INR testing near the time of trough plasma concentrations of  daptomycin(see se ction  4.4).
