4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Active substances that may increase imatinib plasma concentrations  
 Substances that inhibit the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP3A4 activity (e.g. protease inhibitors such as indinavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, r itonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, nelfinavir, boceprevir; azole antifungals including ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole; certain macrolides such as erythromycin, clarithromycin and telithromycin ) could decrease metabolism and increase i matinib concentrations. There was a significant increase in exposure to imatinib (the mean C maxand AUC of imatinib rose by 26% and 40%, respectively) in healthy subjects when it was co -administered with a single dose of ketoconazole (a CYP3A4 inhibitor). Caution should be taken when administering imatinib with inhibitors of the CYP3A4 family.  
 Activ e substances that may decrease imatinib plasma concentrations  
 Substances that are inducers of CYP3A4 activity (e.g. dexamethasone, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampicin, phenobarbital, fosphenytoin, primidone or Hypericum perforatum, also known as St. John ’s Wort) may significantly reduce exposure to i matinib , potentially increasing the risk of therapeutic failure. Pretreatment with multiple doses of rifampicin 600  mg followed by a single 
400 mg dose of imatinib resulted in decrease in C max and AUC (0-∞) by at least  54% and 74%, of the respective values without rifampicin treatment. Similar results were observed in patients with malignant gliomas treated with imatinib  while taking enzyme-inducing anti -epileptic drugs (EIAEDs) such as carbamazepine, oxcarb azepine and phenytoin. The plasma AUC for imatinib decreased by 73% compared to patients not on EIAEDs. Concomitant use of rifampicin or other strong CYP3A4 inducers and imatinib should be avoided.  
 Active substances that may have their plasma concentratio n altered by i matinib  
 Imatinib increases the mean Cmax and AUC of simvastatin (CYP3A4 substrate) 2 - and 3.5-fold, respectively, indicating an inhibition of the CYP3A4 by imatinib. Therefore, caution is recommended when administering i matinib with CYP3A4 s ubstrates with a narrow therapeutic window (e.g. cyclosporin , pimozide , tacrolimus, sirolimus, ergotamine, diergotamine, fentanyl, alfentanil, terfenadine, bortezomib, docetaxel and quinidine ). Imatinib may increase plasma concentration of other CYP3A4 metabolised drugs (e.g. triazolo -benzodiazepines, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, certain HMG-Co 
 A reductase inhibitors, i.e. statins, etc.).  
 Because of known increased risks of bleeding in conjunction with the use of imatinib (e.g. haemorrhage),  patients who require anticoagulation should receive low -molecular -weight or standard heparin, instead of coumarin derivatives such as warfarin.  
 In vitro  imatinib inhibits the cytochrome  P450 isoenzyme CYP2D6 activity at concentrations similar to those th at affect CYP3A4 activity. Imatinib at 400  mg twice daily had an inhibitory effect on 11 CYP2D6 -mediated metoprolol metabolism, with metoprolol C max and AUC being increased by approximately 23% (90%CI [1.16-1.30]). Dose adjustments do not seem to be necessary  when imatinib is co -administrated with CYP2D6 substrates, however caution is advised for CYP2D6 substrates with a narrow therapeutic window such as metoprolol. In patients treated with metoprolol clinical monitoring should be considered.  
 In vitro , imatin ib inhibits paracetamol O -glucuronidation with Ki value of 58.5  micromol/l. Thisinhibition has not been observed in vivo after the administration of i matinib 400 mg and paracetamol 1000  mg. Higher doses of i matinib and paracetamol have not been studied.  
 Caution should therefore be exercised when using high doses of i matinib and paracetamol concomitantly.  
 In thyroidectomy patients receiving levothyroxine, the plasma exposure to levothyroxine may be decreased when i matinib is co -administered (see section  4.4). Caution is therefore recommended. However, the mechanism of the observed interaction is presently unknown.  
 In Ph+ ALL patients, there is clinical experience of co -administering imatinib with chemotherapy (see section  5.1), but drug-drug interactions  between imatinib and chemotherapy regimens are not well characterised. Imatinib adverse events, i.e. hepatotoxicity, myelosuppression or others, may increase and it has been reported that concomitant use with L -asparaginase could be associated with increased hepatotoxicity (see  section  4.8). Therefore, the use of i matinib in combination requires special precaution.  
 
