4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Information about drug interactions with ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal  is referenced from  the published scientific literature for nonliposomal  irinotecan.  
 Interaction affecting the use of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal  
 Strong CYP3A4  inducers  Patients receiving concomitant non -liposomal irinotecan and CYP3A4  enzyme -inducing anticonvulsants phenytoin, phenobarbital or carbamazepine have substantially reduced exposure to irinotecan (AUC reduction by  12% with St John’s wort,  57%-79% with phenytoin, phenobarbital, or carbamazepine) and SN -38 (AUC reduction by  42% with St John’s wort,  36%-92% with phenytoin phenobarbital, or carbamazepine). T herefore, co -administration of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal  with inducers of CYP3A4  may reduce systemic exposure of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal . 
 Strong CYP3A4  inhibitors and UGT1A1  inhibitors  Patients receiving concomitant non -liposomal irinotecan and keto conazole, a CYP3A4  and UGT1A1  inhibitor, have increased SN -38 exposure by  109%. Therefore, co -administration of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal  with other inhibitors of  CYP3A4  (e.g. grapefruit juice, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, lopinavir, nefazodo ne, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, voriconazole) may increase systemic exposure of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal . Based on the drug interaction of non-liposomal  irinotecan and ketoconazole, co -administration of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal  with other inhibitors of  UGT1A1  (e.g. atazanavir, gemfibrozil, indinavir, regorafenib) may also increase systemic exposure of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal . 
 Co-administration of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal +5 -FU/LV does not alter the pharmacokinetics of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis.  
 Antineoplastic agents  (including flucytosine as a prodrug for 5 -fluorouracil)  Adverse effects of irinotecan, such as myelosuppression, may be exacerbated by other  11 
 antineoplastic agents having a similar adverse -effect profile.  
 No interaction of ONIVYDE pegylated liposomal  with other medicinal products is known.  
 
