4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Velphoro is almost not absorbed from the  gastrointestinal tract. Although the potential for interactions with medicinal products seems low, for concomitant treatment with medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic window, the clinical effect and adverse events should be monitored, on initiatio n or dose -adjustment of either Velphoro or the concomitant medicinal product, or the physician should consider measuring blood levels. When administering any medicinal product that is already known to interact with iron (like alendronate and doxycycline) o r has the potential to interact with sucroferric oxyhydroxide  based only on in vitro  studies like levothyroxine, the medicinal product should be administered at least one hour before or two hours after Velphoro.  
 In vitro  studies with the following active substances did not show any relevant interaction: acetylsalicylic acid, cephalexin, cinacalcet, ciprofloxacin, clopidogrel, enalapril, hydrochlorothiazide, metformin, metoprolol, nifedipine, pioglitazone and quinidine.  
 Interaction  studies have only been p erformed in healthy volunteers. They have been conducted in healthy human male and female subjects with losartan, furosemide, digoxin, warfarin, and omeprazole. Concomitant administration of Velphoro did not affect the bioavailability of these medicinal pr oducts as measured by the area under the curve (AUC).   
5  Data from clinical studies have shown that sucroferric oxyhydroxide  does not affect the lipid lowering effects of HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors (e.g., atorvastatin and simvastatin). In addition, post -hoc analyses from clinical studies demonstrated no impact of Velphoro on i 
 PTH lowering effect of oral Vitamin  D analogues. Vitamin  D and 1,25­dihydroxy Vitamin  D levels remained unchanged.  
 Velphoro does not affect guaiac based (Haemoccult) or immunological based (i 
 Colo Rectal and Hexagon Obti) faecal occult blood tests.  
 
