4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Aerinaze  The following combinations are not recommended: 
• digitalis (see section  4.4) 
• bromocriptine 
• cabergoline 
• lisuride, pergolide: risk of vasoconstriction and increase in blood pressure. 
 No interaction studies have been performed with the combination of desloratadine and pseudoephedrine sulphat e. 
 5 The interaction with Aerinaze and alcohol has not been studied. However, in a clinical pharmacology trial desloratadine taken concomitantly with alcohol did not potentiate the performance impairing effects of alcohol. No significant differences were found in the psychomotor test results between desloratadine and placebo groups, whether administered alone or with alcohol. Alcohol use should be avoided during Aerinaze treatment.  
 Desloratadine  No clinically relevant interactions or changes in desloratadine plasma concentrations were observed in clinical trials with desloratadine in which erythromycin or ketoconazole were co -administered.  
 The enzyme responsible for the metabolism of desloratadine has not been identified yet, and therefore, some interactions wi th other medicinal products can not be fully excluded. Desloratadine does not inhibit CYP3A4 in vivo , and in vitro  studies have shown that the medicinal product does not inhibit CYP2D6  and is neither a substrate nor an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein. 
 Pseudoephedrine sulphate Antacids increase the rate of pseudoephedrine sulphate absorption, kaolin decreases it.  Sympathomimetics  Reversible and irreversible MAO inhibitor(s) may cause: risk of vasoconstriction and increased blood pressure.  
 Concurrent administration with other sympathomimetic s (decongestants, anorexogenics or amphetamine -type psychostimulants, antihypertensive medicinal products, tricyclic antidepressants and other antihistamines
) may result in critical hypertension reactions (see section  4.4). 
 Dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, methylergometrine: risk of vasoconstriction and increase in blood pressure.  
 Other vasoconstrictors used as nasal decongestant, by oral or nasal route (phenylpropanolamine, phenylephrine, ephedrine, oxymetazoline, naphazoline…): risk of vasoconstriction. 
 Sympathomimetic medicines reduce the antihypertensive effect of α -methyldopa, mecamylamine, reserpine, veratrum alkaloids, and guanethidine.  
 