4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Mitapivat is  primarily  metabolised by CYP3A4 and is a substrate for P -glycoprotein (P -gp). Mitapivat  induces CYP3A4 and may also induce CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and uridine 6 diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase 1A1 (UGT1A1 ). Mitapivat may inhibit CYP3A4. Mitapivat may induce and inhibit P -gp (see  section  5.2).  
 Effect s of other medicinal products on Pyrukynd  
 CYP3A4 i nhibitors  The effect of itraconazole (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) on the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of mitapivat was evaluated in a Phase  1 study. Itraconazole increased mitapivat AUC
0-t, AUC ∞ and C max by 4.7- fold, 4.9- fold and 1.7- fold, respectively. Increased mitapivat plasma exposures may increase the risk of insomnia. The concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors with Pyrukynd should be avoided (see section  4.4). If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inhibitor is unavoidable, patients  should be monitored  for increased risk of insomnia  (see section  4.2). 
 CYP3A4 i nducers  The effect of rifampicin (a strong CYP3A4 inducer) on the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of mitapivat was evaluated in a Phase  1 study. Rifampicin decreased mitapivat AUC
0-t, AUC ∞ and C max by 91%, 91% and 77%, respectively. Decreased mitapivat plasma exposures  may reduce the efficacy of Pyrukynd. The c oncomitant  use of CYP3A4 inducers with Pyrukynd should be avoided (see section  4.4). If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inducer is unavoidable, patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy of mitapivat.  
 Gastric a cid-reducing agents  Mitapivat exhibits p 
 H -dependent solubility (see section 5.2) and coadministration with gastric acid-reducing agents (e.g. famotidine ) may decrease mitapivat absorption (see section  4.4). Concomitant use  of Pyrukynd with medicinal products  that elevate gastric p 
 H was not evaluated  in a clinical  drug -drug interaction study. If concomitant use of gastric acid -reducing agents is unavoidable, patients should be monitored for reduced efficacy of mitapivat.  
 Effect of Pyrukynd on other medicinal products  
 CYP3A4 substrates  Mitapivat induce s and may inhibit CYP3A4 (see section  5.2) and co- administration with sensitive CYP3A4 substrates  (e.g. midazolam)  may alter systemic exposure of these medicinal products . Concomitant use of Pyrukynd with substrates of this enzyme was not evaluated in a clinical drug- drug interaction s tudy. A lternative therapies that are not sensitive substrates of CYP3A4 should be considered during treatment with Pyrukynd (see section  4.4). If co -administrati on of Pyrukynd with sensitive CYP3A4 substrates is unavoidable, patients  should be carefully monitored  especially for those substrates with a narrow therapeutic index  (e.g. alfentanil,  carbamazepine , cyclosporine, ergotamine , fentanyl, pimozide, quinidine , sirolimus , tacrolimus) . 
 Hormonal contraceptives  Mitapivat  may alter the systemic exposure  of hormonal contraceptives that are sensitive substrates of CYP3A4 (e.g. ethinylestradiol ) (see section  4.4) and may affect their efficacy ( see section  4.6). 
 UGT1A1 , CYP2B6  and CYP2C  substrates  Based on in vitro  data, mitapivat may induce UGT 1A1, CYP2B6, CYP2C8 , CYP2C9  and CYP2C19 (see section  5.2) and may decrease systemic exposure to substrates of these enzymes  (e.g. irinotecan 
[UGT1A1] ; bupropion [CYP2B6]; omeprazole [CYP2C19]; repaglinide [CYP2C8]; warfarin 
[CYP2C9] ). Concomitant use of Pyrukynd with substrates of these enzyme s was not evaluated in a clinical  drug -drug interaction study. Alternative therapies that are not UGT1A1 substrates or sen sitive substrates of CYP2B6 or CYP2C  should be considered during treatment with Pyrukynd (see section  4.4). If co- administration is unavoidable, patients should be monitored for loss of therapeutic effect of substates of these enzymes, especially for those with a narrow therapeutic index  (e.g. irinotecan [UGT1A1] ; cyclophosphamide  [CYP2B6]; valproic acid  [CYP2C19];  paclitaxel  
[CYP2C8];  warfarin , phenytoin  [CYP2C9] ). 
 7 P-gp substrates  Based on in vitro data, mitapivat may induce  and inhibit  P-gp (see section  5.2) and may alter systemic exposure  of substrates (e.g. dabigatran etexilate) of this transporter.  Concomitant use of Pyrukynd with substrates of P -gp was not evaluated in a clinical drug- drug interaction study. Alternative therapies that ar e not P -gp substrates should be considered during treatment with Pyrukynd (see section 4.4). If co-administration of Pyrukynd with P -gp substrates is unavoidable, patients should be carefully monitored especially for those substrates with a narrow therapeu tic index  (e.g. colchicine , digoxin) . 
 
