4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Sarilumab exposure was not affected when coadministered with MTX  based on the population pharmacokinetic analyses and across study comparisons. MTX e xposure is not expected to be changed by sarilumab coadministration; however, no clinical data was collected. S arilumab  has not been investigated in combination with Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors or b iological DMARDs such as Tumor Necrosis Factor (T NF) antagonists.  
 Various in v itro and limited in vivo  human studies have shown that cytokines and cytokine modulators can influence the expression and activity of specific cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes (CY P1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4) and therefore have the potential to alter th e pharm acokinetics of concomitantly administered medicinal products that are substrates of these enzymes. E levated levels of interleukin -6 (IL -6) may down-regulate CYP activity s uch as in patients with RA and hence increase drug levels compared to subjects  withou t RA. Blockade of IL-6 signalling by IL- 6Rα antagonists such as sarilumab might reverse the inhibito ry effect of IL -6 and restore CYP activity, leading to altered medicin al products concentrations.  
 The modulation of IL- 6 effect on CYP enzymes by sarilumab may be clinically relevant for CYP substrates with a narrow therapeutic index, where the dose is individually adjusted. Upon initiation or discontinuation of sarilumab  in patients being treated with CYP substrate medicinal products, therapeutic mo nitoring of effect (e.g., warfarin) or drug concentration (e.g., theophylline) should be performed and the individual dose of the medicinal product should be adjusted as needed.  
 Caution should be exercised in patients who start s arilumab treatmen t while on therapy with CYP3A4 substrates (e.g., oral contraceptives or statins), as s arilumab may reverse the inhi bitory effect of IL -6 and restore CYP3A4 activity, leading to decreased exposure and activity of CYP3A4 substrate (see section 5.2). Interaction of sarilumab with substrates of other CYPs (CYP2C9, CYP 2C19, CYP2D6) has not been studied.   
