4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Genvoya should not be co -administered with other antiretroviral medicinal products.   Therefore , infor mation regarding drug -drug interactions with other antiretroviral products (including protease inhibitors [ PIs] and non- nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors [NNRTIs] ) is not provided (see section  4.4).  Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
 Genvoya should not be administered concomitantly with medicinal products containing tenofovir alafenamide, tenofovir disoproxil, lamivudine or adefovir dipivoxil  used for the treatment of HBV infection . 
 Elvitegravir  
 Elvitegravir is primarily metabolised by CYP3A, and medicinal products that induce or inhibit CYP3A may affect the exposure of elvitegravir.   Co-administration of Genvoya with medicinal products that induce CYP3A may result in decreased plasma concentrations of elvitegravir and reduced therapeutic effect of Genvoya (see “Concomitant use contraindicated” and section  4.3).  Elvitegravir may have the potential to induce CYP2C9 and/or inducible uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) enzymes; as such it may decrease the plasma concentration of substrates of these enzymes . 
 Cobicistat  
 Cobicistat is a strong mechanism -based inhibitor of CYP3A and is also a CYP3A substrate.   Cobicistat is also a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and is metabolised, to a minor extent, by CYP2D6.   Medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A may decrease the clearance of cobicistat, resulting in increased plasma concentrations of cobicistat.   Medicinal products t hat have active metabolite(s) formed by CYP3A may result in reduced plasma concentrations of these active metabolite(s).  
 Medicinal products that are highly dependent on CYP3A metabolism and have high first pass metabolism are the most susceptible to large increases in exposure when co -administered with cobicistat (see “Concomitant use contraindicated” and section  4.3). 
 Cobicistat is an inhibitor of the following transporters: P-gp, breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), organic anion transporting polype ptide (OATP)  1B1 and OATP1B3.   Co-administration with medicinal products that are substrates of P -gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of these products.  
 Emtricitabine  
 In vitro  and clinical pharmacokinetic drug-drug  interaction studies have shown that the potential for CYP -mediated interactions involving emtricitabine with other medicinal products is low.  Co-administration of emtricitabine with medicinal products that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may i ncrease concentrations of emtricitabine, and/or the co -administered medicinal product.   Medicinal products that decrease renal function may increase concentrations of emtricitabine.  
 8 Tenofovir alafenamide  
 Tenofovir alafenamide is transported by P -gp and BCRP .  Medicinal products that strongly affect P -gp and BCRP activity may lead to changes in tenofovir alafenamide absorption.   However, upon co-administration with cobicistat in Genvoya, near maximal inhibition of P -gp by cobicistat is achieved leadi ng to increased availability of tenofovir alafenamide with resulting exposures comparable to tenofovir alafenamide 25  mg administered alone.   As such, tenofovir alafenamide exposures following administration of Genvoya are not expected to be further increased when used in combination with another P -gp and/or BCRP inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole ).  Based on data from an in vitro  study, co -administration of tenofovir alafenamide and xanthine oxidase inhibitors (e.g., febuxostat) is not expected to increase syst emic exposure to tenofovir in  vivo.   In vitro  and clinical pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction studies have shown that the potential for CYP -mediated interactions involving tenofovir alafenamide with other medicinal products is low.   Tenofovir alafenamid e is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or CYP2D6.   Tenofovir alafenamide is not an inhibitor or inducer of CYP3A in  vivo.   Tenofovir alafenamide is a substrate of OATP in  vitro .  Inhibitors of OATP and BCRP include c iclosporin.  
 Concomitant use contraindicated  
 Co-administration of Genvoya  and some medicinal products that are primar ily metaboli sed by CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentrations of these products, which are associated with the potential for serious or life -threatening adverse reactions such as peripheral vasospasm or isch aemia (e.g., dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, ergometrine ), or myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis (e. g., simvastatin, lovastatin), or prolonged or increased sedation or respiratory depression (e. g., orally administered midazolam or triazolam).  Co-administration of Genvoya  and other medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A such as amiodarone, lomitapide, quinidine, cisapride, pimozide,  lurasidone,  alfuzo sin and sildenafil  for pulmonary  arterial hypertension  is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 Co-administration of Genvoya  and some medicinal products that induce CYP3A  such as St. John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum), rifampi cin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital , and phenytoin  may result in significantly decreased  cobicistat and elvitegravir plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance (see section  4.3). 
 Other interactions 
 Cobicistat and tenofovir alafenamide are not inhi bitors of human UGT1A1 in  vitro.   It is not known whether cobicistat, emtricitabine, or tenofovir alafenamide are inhibitors of other UGT enzymes.  
 Interact ions between the components of Genvoya and potential co-administered medicinal products are listed in Table  1 below (increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔”).  The interactions described are based on studies conducted with Genvoya , or the components of Genvoya  (elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, and tenofovir ala fenamide), as individual agents and/or in combination, or are potential drug-drug interactions  that may occur with Genvoya . 
 9 Table  1: Interactions between the individual components of Genvoya  and other medicinal products  
 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya ANTI -INFECTIVES  Antifungals  Ketoconazole (200  mg twice daily)/  Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)2 Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↑ 48% Cmin: ↑ 67% Cmax: ↔ 
 Concentrations of ketoconazole and/or cobicistat may increase with co-administration of Genvoya . When administering with Genvoya , the maximum daily dose of ketoconazole should not exceed 200 mg per day.   Caution is warranted  and clinical monitoring is recommended during the co-administration . Itracon azole3 Voriconazole3 Posaconazole3 Fluconazole  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya . 
 Concentrations of itra conazole , fluconazole  and posaconazole may be increased when co -administered with cobicistat . 
 Concentrations of voriconazole may increase or decrease when co-administered with Genvoya . Clinical monitoring should be made  upon co -administration with Genvoya .  When administering with Genvoya , the maximum daily dose of itraconazole should not exceed 
200 mg per day.  
 An assessment of benefit/risk ratio is recommended to justify use of voriconazole with Genvoya . Antimycobacterials  Rifabutin (150  mg every other day)/ Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)/  Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)  Co-administration of rifabutin, a potent CYP3A inducer, may significantly decrease cobicistat and elvitegravir plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance.  
 Rifabutin:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 
25-O-desacetyl -rifabutin  AUC: ↑  525%  Cmin: ↑ 394%  Cmax: ↑ 384%  
 Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↓  21% Cmin: ↓ 67% Cmax: ↔ 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↓ 66% Cmax: ↔ Co-administration of Genvoya  and rifabutin is not recommended.  
 If the combination is needed, the recommended dose of rifabutin is 150 mg 3  times per week on set days (for example Monday -Wednesday -Friday). Increased monitoring for rifabutin -associated adverse reactions including neutropenia and uveitis is warranted due to an expected increase in exposure to desacetyl -rifabutin.  Further dose reduction of r ifabutin has not been studied.  It should be kept in mind that a twice weekly dose of 150  mg may not provide an optimal exposure to rifabutin thus leading to a risk of rifamy cin resistance and a treatment failure.  10 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya Anti -hepatitis  C virus medicinal products  Ledipasvir (90  mg once daily)/ Sofosbuvir (400 mg once daily)/ Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)/ Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)/ Emtricitabine (200  mg once daily)/ Tenofovir alafenamide (10  mg once daily)5 Ledipasvir:  AUC: ↑  79% Cmin: ↑ 93% Cmax: ↑ 65% 
 Sofosbuvir:  AUC: ↑  47% Cmin: N/A  Cmax: ↑ 28% 
 Sofosbuvir metabolite GS -566500:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Sofosbuvir metabolite GS -331007:  AUC: ↑  48% Cmin: ↑ 66% Cmax: ↔ 
 Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↑ 46% Cmax: ↔ 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↑  53% Cmin: ↑ 225%  Cmax: ↔ 
 Emtricitabine:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Tenofovir alafenamide:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: N/A  Cmax: ↔ No dose adjustment of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir and Genvoya  is warranted upon co -administration.  11 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya Sofosbuvir (400  mg once daily)/ Velpatasvir (100  mg once daily)/ Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)/ Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)/ Emtricitabine (200  mg once daily)/ Tenofovir alafenamide (10  mg once daily)5 Sofosbuvir:  AUC: ↑  37% Cmin: N/A Cmax: ↔ 
 Sofosbuvir metabolite GS -331007:  AUC: ↑  48% Cmin: ↑ 58% Cmax: ↔ 
 Velpatasvir:  AUC: ↑  50% Cmin: ↑ 60% Cmax: ↑ 30% 
 Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↑ 103%  Cmax: ↔ 
 Emtricitabine:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Tenofovir alafenamide:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: N/A  Cmax: ↓ 20% No dose adjustment of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and Genvoya is warranted upon co -administration.  12 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir/  Voxilaprevir (400 mg/100 mg/100 mg+100  mg once daily)7/  Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)/ Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)/ Emtricitabine (200  mg once daily)/ Tenofovir alafenamide (10  mg once daily)5 Sofosbuvir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: N/A  Cmax: ↑ 27% 
 Sofosbuvir metabolite GS -331007:  AUC: ↑  43% Cmin: N/A  Cmax: ↔ 
 Velpatasvir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↑ 46% Cmax: ↔ 
 Voxilaprevir:  AUC: ↑  171%  Cmin: ↑ 350%  Cmax: ↑ 92% 
 Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↑ 32% Cmax: ↔ 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↑  50% Cmin: ↑ 250%  Cmax: ↔ 
 Emtricitabine:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Tenofovir alafenamide:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: N/A  Cmax: ↓ 21% No dose adjustment of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir and Genvoya is warranted upon co-administration.  Macrolide antibiotics  Clarithromycin  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya . 
 Concentrations of clarithromycin and/or cobicistat may be altered with co -administration of Genvoya . Clarithromycin dosing should be based on the patient’s Cr 
 Cl, taking into consideration the effect of cobicistat on Cr 
 Cl and serum creatinine (see section  4.8). 
 Patients with Cr 
 Cl greater than or equal to 60  m 
 L/min:  No do se adjustment of clarithromycin is required.  
 Patients with Cr 
 Cl between 
30 m 
 L/min and 60  m 
 L/min:  The dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50%.  13 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya Telithrom ycin Interaction not studied with any  of the components of Genvoya . 
 Concentrations of telithromycin and/or cobicistat may be altered with co -administration of Genvoya . Clinical monitoring is recommended upon co -administration of Genvoya . ANTICONVULSANTS  Carbamazepine (200  mg twice daily)/ Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)/ Cobicistat (150 mg once daily)  Co-administration of carbamazepine, a potent CYP3A inducer, may significantly decrease cobicistat plasma concentrations.  
 Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↓  69% Cmin: ↓ 97% Cmax: ↓ 45% 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↓  84% Cmin: ↓ 90% Cmax: ↓ 72% 
 Carbamazepine:  AUC: ↑  43% Cmin: ↑ 51% Cmax: ↑ 40% 
 Carbamazepine- 10,11 -epoxide: AUC: ↓  35% Cmin: ↓ 41% Cmax: ↓ 27% Carbamazepine decreases plasma concentrations of elvitegravir  and cobicistat , which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance.   Co-administration of Genvoya  with carbamazepine is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 14 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya GLUCOCORTICOIDS  Corticosteroids  Corticosteroids primarily metabolised by CYP3A (including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, triamcinolone).  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya . 
 Plasma concentrations of these medicinal products may be increased when co- administered with Genvoya, resulting in reduced serum cortisol concentrations.  Concomitant use of Gen voya and corticosteroids that are metabolised by CYP3A (e.g. fluticasone propionate or other inhaled or nasal corticosteroids) may increase the risk of development of systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression.  
 Co-administration with CYP3A- metabolised corticosteroids is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk, in which case patients should be monitored for systemic corticosteroid effects.  Alternative corticosteroids which are less dependent on CYP3A metabolism e.g. beclomethasone for intranasal or inhalational use should be considered, particularly for long-term use.  
 For coadministration of  cutaneously -administered  corticosteroids sensitive to CYP3A  inhibition, refer to the prescribing  information of the corticosteroid for  conditions or uses that augment its  systemic absorption.  15 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya MEDICINAL PRODUCTS  or ORAL SUPPLEMENTS CONTAINING POLYVALENT CATIONS (e.g. Mg, Al, Ca, Fe, Zn)   Magnesium/aluminium -containing antacid suspension (20 m 
 L single dose)/ Elvitegravir (50 mg single dose)/ Ritonavir (100  mg single dose)  Elvitegravir (antacid suspension after ±  2 hours):  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Elvitegravir (simultaneous administration):  AUC: ↓  45% Cmin: ↓ 41% Cmax: ↓ 47% 
 Elvitegravir plasma concentrations are lower with antacids due to local complexation in the gastrointestinal tract and not to changes in gastric p 
 H. It is recommended to separate Genvoya and  administration of antacids, medicinal products or oral supplements containing  polyvalent cations  by at least 4  hours.  
 For information on other acid reducing agents (e.g., H
2-receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors), see “Studies conducted with other medicinal products”.  Calcium or iron supplements (including multivitamins ) Other cation -containing antacids  Cation -containing laxatives  Sucralfate  Buffered medicinal products  
 Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Elvitegravir plasma concentrations are expected to be lower with antacids, medicinal products or oral supplements containing polyvalent cations, due to local complexation in the gastrointestinal tract and not to changes in gastric p 
 H.  ORAL ANTI -DIABETICS  Metformin  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya . 
 Cobicistat reversibly inhibits MATE1, and concentrations of metformin may be increased when co-administ ered with Genvoya . Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin is recommended in patients who are taking Genvoya . NARCOTIC ANALGESICS  Methadone  (80-120 mg)/ Elvitegravir  (150 mg once daily) / Cobicistat  (150 mg once daily)  Methadone:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ No dose adjustment of methadone is required.  16 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya Buprenor phine/Naloxone  (16/4 to 
24/6 mg)/ Elvitegravir  (150 mg once daily) / Cobicistat  (150 mg once daily)  Buprenor phine: AUC: ↑ 35% Cmin: ↑ 66% Cmax: ↔ 
 Naloxone: AUC: ↓ 28% Cmax: ↓ 28% 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ No dose a djustment of buprenor phine/naloxone is required.  ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES  Drospirenone/Ethinyl oestradiol (3 mg/0.02 mg single dose)/ Cobicistat (15 0 mg once daily)  Interaction not studied with Genvoya.  
 Expected  Drospirenone:  AUC: ↑ Plasma concentrations of drospirenone may be increased when co -administered with cobicistat -containing products.  Clinical monitoring is recommended due to the potential for hyperkal aemia.  
 Caution should be exercised when co-administering Genvoya and a hormonal contraceptive.  The hormonal contraceptive should contain at least 30  µg ethinyl oestradiol and contain drospirenone or norgestimate as the progestogen or patients should use an alternative reliable method of contraception (see sections  4.4 and 
4.6). 
 The l ong-term effects of substantial increases in progest ogen exposure are unknown.  Norgestimate (0.180/0.215/0.250 mg once daily)/ Ethinyl oestradiol (0.025  mg once daily)/ Emtricitabine/Tenofovir alafenamide (200/25  mg once daily)6 Norelgestromin:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Norgestrel:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Ethinyl oestradiol:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ Norgestimate (0.180/0.215  mg once daily)/ Ethinyl oestradiol (0.025  mg once daily)/ Elvitegravir (150 mg once daily)/ Cobicistat (150 mg once daily)4 Norgestimate:  AUC: ↑  126%  Cmin: ↑ 167%  Cmax: ↑ 108%  
 Ethinyl oestradiol:  AUC: ↓  25% Cmin: ↓ 44% Cmax: ↔ 
 Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 17 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya ANTIARRHYTHMICS  Digoxin (0.5 mg single dose )/ Cobicistat  (150 mg multiple doses ) Digoxin:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↑ 41% It is recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when digoxin is combined with Genvoya . Disopyramide  Flecainide  Systemic lidocaine  Mexiletine  Propafenone  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya . 
 Concentrations of these antiarrhythmic drugs may be increased when co- administered with cobicistat . Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring is recommended upon co-administration with Genvoya . ANTI -HYPERTENSIVES  Metoprolol  Timolol  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya . 
 Concentrations of beta -blockers may be increased when co-administered with cobicistat . Clinical monitoring is recommended and a dose decrease may be necessary when these agents are co-administ ered with Genvoya . Amlodipine  Diltiazem  Felodipine  Nicardipine  Nifedipine  Verapamil  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya . 
 Concentrations of calcium channel blockers may be increased when co-administered with cobicistat . Clinical monitoring of therapeutic effects and adverse reactions  is recommended when these medicinal products  are concomitantly admin istered with Genvoya . ENDOTHELIN RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS  Bosentan  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya . 
 Co-administration with Genvoya  may lead to decreased elvitegravir and/or cobicistat exposures and loss of therapeutic effect  and development of resistance.  Alternative endothelin receptor antagonists may be considered.  ANTICOAGULANTS  Dabigatran  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Co-administration with Genvoya may increase dabigatran plasma concentrations with similar effects as seen with other strong P -gp inhibitors.  Co-administration of Genvoya with dabigatran is contraindicated.  Apixaban  Rivaroxaban  Edoxaban  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Co-administration with Genvoya may result in increased plasma concentrations of the DOAC, which may lead to an increased bleeding risk.  Co-admin istration of apixaban, rivaroxaban or edoxaban is not recommended with Genvoya.  Warfarin  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya . 
 Concentrations of warfarin may be affected upon co -administration with Genvoya . It is recommended that  the international normali sed ratio (INR) be monitored upon co-administration of Genvoya .  INR should continue to be monitored during the first weeks following ceasing treatment with Genvoya . 18 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya ANTIPLATELETS  Clopidogrel  
 Interaction not studied with any of  the components of Genvoya.  
 Co-administration of clopidogrel with cobicistat is expected to decrease clopidogrel active metabolite plasma concentrations, which may reduce the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel.  Co-administration of Genvoya with clopidog rel is not recommended.  
 Prasugrel  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Genvoya  is not expected to have a clinically relevant effect on plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of prasugrel.  No dose adjustment of prasugrel  is required.  INHALED BETA AGONIST  Salmeterol  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Co-administration with Genvoya may result in increased plasma concentrations of salmeterol, which is associated with the potential for serious or life -threatening adverse reactions.  Concurrent administration of salmeterol and Genvoya is not recommended.  HMG  CO-A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS  Rosuvastatin (10  mg single dose)/ Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)/ Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)  Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Rosuvastatin:  AUC: ↑  38% Cmin: N/A  Cmax: ↑ 89% Concentrations of rosuvastatin are transiently increased when administered with elvitegravir and cobicistat.  Dose modifications are not necessary when rosuvastatin is administered in combination with Genvoya.  Atorvastatin (10  mg single dose)/ Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)/Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)/Emtricitabine (200  mg once daily)/Tenofovir alafenamide (10 mg once daily)  Atorvastatin:  AUC: ↑  160%  Cmin: N/A  Cmax: ↑ 132%  
 Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↔ Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ Concentrations of atorvastatin are increased when co- administered with elvitegravir and cobicistat.  Start with the lowest possible dose of atorvastatin with careful monitoring upon co -administration with Genvoya.  Pitavastatin  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Concentrations of pitavastatin may be increased when administered with elvitegravir and cobicistat.  Caution should be exercised when co-administering Genvoya with pitavastatin.  19 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya Pravastatin  Fluvastatin  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Concentrations of these HMG  Co-A reductase inhibitors are expected to transiently increase when administered with elvitegravir and cobicistat.  Dose modifications are no t necessary when administered in combination with Genvoya.  Lovastatin  Simvastatin  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  Co-administration of Genvoya and lovastatin and simvastatin is contraindicated (see section  4.3). LIPID -MODIFYING AGENTS  Lomitapide  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Lomitapide is highly dependent on CYP3A for its metabolism and co -administration with Genvoya may result in increased concentrations of lomitapide and potent ial for markedly increased transaminases.  Coadministration with lomitapide is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 PHOSPHODIESTERASE TYPE  5 (PDE -5) INHIBITORS  Sildenafil  Tadalafil  Vardenafil  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 PDE -5 inhibitors are primarily metabolised by CYP3A.  Co-administration with Genvoya may result in increased plasma concentrations of sildenafil and tadalafil, which may result in PDE -5 inhibitor -associated adverse reactions.  Co-administration of Genvoya a nd sildenafil for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension is contraindicated.  
 Caution should be exercised, including consideration of dose reduction, when co- administering Genvoya with tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertensio n. 
 For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, it is recommended that a single dose of sildenafil no more than 25 mg in 48  hours, vardenafil no more than 2.5 mg in 72 hours, or tadalafil no more than 10  mg in 
72 hours be co- administered with Genvoya.  ANTI DEPRESSANTS  Sertraline (50  mg single dose)/ Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)/ Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)/ Emtricitabine (200  mg once daily)/ Tenofovir alafenamide (10  mg once daily)5  Elvitegravir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Tenofovir alafenamide:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ 
 Sertraline:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↔ Cmax: ↔ Concentrations of sertraline are not affected upon co -administration with Genvoya.  No dose adjustment is required upon co- administration.  20 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on medicinal product  levels . Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax, C min1 Recommendation concerning co-administration with Genvoya Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)  Trazodone  Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)  Escitalopram  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Concentrations of antidepressant agents may be increased when co-administered with cobicistat.  Careful dose titration of the antidepressant and monitor ing for antidepressant response is recommended.  IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS  Ciclosporin  Sirolimus  Tacrolimus  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Concentrations of these immunosuppressant agents may be increased when administered with cobicistat.  Therapeutic monitoring is recommended upon co-administration with Genvoya.  SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS  Buspirone  Clorazepate  Diazepam  Estazolam  Flurazepam  Lorazepam  Triazolam  Zolpidem  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Triazolam is primarily metabolised by CYP3A.  Co -administration with Genvoya may result in increased plasma concentrations of this medicinal product, which is associated with the potential for serious or life -threatening adverse reactions.  
 Concentrations of other benzodiazepines, including diazepam, may be increased when administered with Genvoya.  
 Based on non -CYP -mediated elimination pathways for lorazepam, no effect on plasma concentrations is expected upon co-administration with Genvoya.  Co-administrat ion of Genvoya and triazolam is contraindicated (see section  4.3).  With other sedatives/hypnotics, dose reduction may be necessary and concentration monitoring is recommended.  Orally administered midazolam (2.5 mg single dose)/ Tenofovir alafenamide (25  mg once daily)  
 Intravenously administered midazolam (1  mg single dose)/ Tenofovir alafenamide (25  mg once daily)  Midazolam:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔ 
 Midazolam is primarily metabolised by CYP3A.  Due to the presence of cobicistat, co-administration with Genvoya may result in increased plasma concentrations of this medicinal product, which is associated with the potential for serious or life-threatening adverse reactions.  Co-administration of Genvoya and orally administered midazolam is contraindicated (see sectio n 4.3). ANTI -GOUT  Colchicine  Interaction not studied with any of the components of Genvoya.  
 Co-administration with Genvoya may result in increased plasma concentrations of this medicinal product.  Dose reductions of colchicine may be required.  Genvoya should not be co-administered with colchicine to patients with renal or hepatic impairment.  N/A = not applicable  21 DOAC  = direct oral anticoagulant  
1 When data available from drug-drug interaction studies . 
2 These studies were performed with ritonavir boosted elvitegravir.  
3 These are medicinal products  within class where similar interactions could be predicted.  
4 This study was conducted using elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate . 
5 This study was conducted using Genvoya . 
6 This study was conducted using emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide . 
7 This study was conducted with additional voxilaprevir 100  mg to achieve voxilaprevir exposures expected in HCV infected patients.  
 Studies conducted with other  medicinal products  
 Based on drug-drug interaction studies conducted with Genvoya or the components of Genvoya, no clinically significant drug -drug interactions have been either observed or are expected between the components of Genvoya and the following medicinal products : entecavir, famciclovir, ribavirin, famotidine, and omeprazole.  
 
