4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Tasmar, as a COMT inhibitor, is known to increase the bioavailability of the co -admin istered levodopa. The consequent increase in dopaminergic stimulation can lead to the dopaminergic adverse reactions observed after treatment w ith COMT inhibitors. The most common of these are increased dyskinesia, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, syncope, orthostatic complains, constipation, sleep disorders, somnolence, hallucination.  
 Levodopa has been associated with somnolence and episodes o f sudden sleep onset. Sudden onset of sleep during daily activities, in some cases without awareness or warning signs, has been reported very rarely. Patients must be informed of this and advised to exercise caution while driving or operating machines duri ng treatment with levodopa. Patients who have experienced somnolence and/or an episode of sudden sleep onset must refrain from driving or operating machines (see section 4.7). Furthermore a reduction of levodopa dose or termination of therapy may be consid ered.  
 Catechols and other drugs metabolised by catechol -O-methyltransferase (COMT)  Tolcapone may influence the pharmacokinetics of drugs metabolised by COMT. No effects were seen on the pharmacokinetics of the COMT substrate carbidopa. An interaction was  observed with benserazide, which may lead to increased levels of benserazide and its active metabolite. The magnitude of the effect was dependent on the dose of benserazide. The plasma concentrations of benserazide observed after co -administration of tolc apone and benserazide -25 mg/levodopa were still within the range of values observed with levodopa/benserazide alone. On the other hand, after co -administration of tolcapone and benserazide -50 mg/levodopa the benserazide plasma concentrations could be incre ased above the levels usually observed with levodopa/benserazide alone. The effect of tolcapone on the pharmacokinetics of other drugs metabolised by COMT such as -methyldopa, dobutamine, apomorphine, adrenaline and isoprenaline have not been evaluated. The prescriber should be observant of adverse reactions caused by putative increased plasma levels of these drugs when combined with Tasmar.  
 Effect of tolcapone on the metabolism of other drugs  Due to its affinity for cytochrome CYP2C9 in vitro , tolcapone may interfere with drugs whose clearance is dependent on this metabolic pathway, such as tolbutamide and warfarin. In an interaction study, tolcapone did not change the pharmacokinetics of tolbutamide. Therefore, clinically relevant interaction s involving cytochrome CYP2C9 appear unlikely.  
 Since clinical information is limited regarding the combination of warfarin and tolcapone, coagulation parameters should be monitored when these drugs are co -administered.  
 Drugs that increase catecholamines  Since tolcapone interferes with the metabolism of catecholamines, interactions with other drugs affecting catecholamine levels are theoretically possible.  
 When Tasmar was given together with levodopa/carbidopa and desipramine, there was no significant change in blood pressure, pulse rate and plasma concentrations of desipramine. Overall, the frequency of adverse reactions increased slightly. These adverse reactions were predictable based on the known adverse reactions to each of the three dr ugs individually. Therefore, caution should be exercised when potent noradrenaline uptake inhibitors such as desipramine, maprotiline, or venlafaxine are administered to Parkinson’s disease patients being treated with Tasmar and levodopa preparations.  
 In clinical trials, patients receiving Tasmar/levodopa preparations reported a similar adverse reaction profile independent of whether or not they were also concomitantly administered selegiline (a MAO -B inhibitor).  
 
 
 
 
 7 