4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  
 Inducers of metabolic enzymes  
 Administration of rifampicin for 5  days before administration of a single dose of sorafenib resulted in  an average 37% reduction of sorafenib AUC. Other inducers of CYP3A4 activity and/or  glucuronidation (e.g. Hypericum perforatum also known as St. John’s wort, phenytoin,  carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and dexamethasone) may also increase metabolism of sorafenib and  thus decrease sorafenib concentrations.  
 CYP3A4 inhibitors  
 Ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, administered once daily for 7  days to healthy male  volunteers did not alter the mean AUC of a single 50  mg dose of sorafenib. These data suggest that  clinical pharmacokinetic interactions of sorafenib with CYP3A4 inhibitors are unlikely.  
 CYP2B6, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 substrates  
 Sorafenib inhibited CYP2B6, CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 in vitro  with similar potency. However, in  clinical pharmacokinetic studies, concomitant administration of sorafenib 400  mg twice daily with  cyclophosphamide, a CYP2B6 substrate, or paclitaxel, a CYP2C8 substrate, did not result in a  clinically meaningful inhibition. These data suggest that sorafenib at the recommended dose of  400 mg twice daily may not be an in vivo  inhibitor of CYP2B6 or CYP2C8.  Additionally, concomitant treatment with sorafenib and warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, did not result  in changes in mean PT -INR compared to placebo. Thus, also the risk for a clinically relevant in vivo  inhibition of CYP2C9 by sorafenib may be expected to be low. However, patients taking warfarin or  phenprocoumon should have their INR checked regularly (see section  4.4). 
 CYP3A4, CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 substrates  
 Concomitant administration of sorafenib and midazolam, dextromethorphan or omeprazole, which are  substrates for cytochromes CYP3A4, CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 respectively, did not alter the exposure  of these agents. This indicates that sorafenib is neither an inhibitor nor an inducer of these cytochrome  P450 isoenzymes. Therefore, clinical pharmacokinetic interactions of sorafenib with substrates of  these enzymes are unlikely.  
 UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 substrates  
 In vitro , sorafenib inhibited glucuronidation via UGT1A1 and UGT1A9. The clinical relevance of this  finding is unknown (see below and section  4.4). 
 In vitro  studies of CYP enzyme induction  
 CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 activities were not altered after treatment of cultured human hepatocytes with  sorafenib, indicating that sorafenib is unlikely to be an inducer of CYP1A2 and CYP3A4.  
 P-gp-substrates  
 In vitro , sorafenib has been shown to inhibit the transport protein p -glycoprotein (P -gp). Increased  plasma concentrations of P -gp substrates such as digoxin cannot be excluded with concomitant  treatment with sorafenib.  
 Combination with other anti -neoplastic agents  
 In clinical studies sorafenib has been administered with a variety of other anti -neoplastic agents at  their commonly used dosing regimens including gemcitabine, cisplatin, oxaliplatin, paclitaxel,  carboplatin, capecitabine, doxorubicin, irinotecan, docetaxel and cyclophosphamide. Sorafenib had no  7 clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of gemcitabine, cisplatin, carboplatin, oxaliplatin or  cyclophosphamide.  
 Paclitaxel/carboplatin  
 Administration of paclitaxel (225  mg/m2) and carboplatin (AUC =6) with sorafenib ( ≤400 mg twice daily), administered with a 3 -day break in sorafenib dosing (two days prior to and on the day of paclitaxel/carboplatin administration), resulted in no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel.  
 Co-administration of paclitaxel (225  mg/m 2, once every 3  weeks) and carboplatin (AUC=6) with sorafenib (400  mg twice daily, without a break in sorafenib dosing) resulted in a 47% increase in sorafenib exposure, a 29% increase in paclitaxel exposure and a 50% increase in 6 -OH paclitaxel exposure. The pharmacokinetics of carboplatin were unaffected.  
 These data indicate no need for dose adjustments when paclitaxel and carboplatin are co -administered with sorafenib with a 3 -day break in sorafenib dosing (two days prior to and on the day of paclitaxel/carboplatin administration). The clinical significanc e of the increases in sorafenib and paclitaxel exposure, upon co -administration of sorafenib without a break in dosing, is unknown.  
 Capecitabine  
 Co-administration of capecitabine (750 -1050  mg/m2 twice daily, Days 1-14 every 21  days) and  sorafenib (200  or 400  mg twice daily, continuous uninterrupted administration) resulted in no  significant change in sorafenib exposure, but a 15 -50% increase in capecitabine exposure and a 0 -52% increase in 5 -FU exposure. The clinical significance of these small to modest increases in capecitabine  and 5 -FU exposure when co -administered with sorafenib is unknown.  
 Doxorubicin/Irinotecan  
 Concomitant treatment with sorafenib resulted in a 21% increase in the AUC of doxorubicin. When  administered with irinotecan, whose active metabolite SN -38 is further metabolised by the UGT1A1  pathway, there was a 67 -120% increase in the AUC of SN -38 and a 26 -42% increase in the AUC  of irinotecan. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown (see section  4.4). 
 Docetaxel  
 Docetaxel (75  or 100  mg/m2 administered once every 21  days) when co -administered with sorafenib  (200 mg twice daily or 400 mg twice daily administered on days 2 through 19  of a 21 -day cycle with  a 
3-day break in dosing around administration of docetaxel) resulted in a 36 -80% increase in  docetaxel AUC and a 16 -32% increase in docetaxel C max. Caution is recommended when sorafenib is  co-administered with docetaxel (see section  4.4). 
 Combination with other agents  
 Neomycin  Co-administration of neomycin, a non -systemic antimicrobial agent used to eradicate gastrointestinal  flora, interferes with the enterohepatic recycling of sorafenib (see section  5.2, Metabolism and  Elimination), resulting in decreased sorafenib exposure. In healthy volunteers treated with a 5 -day regimen of neomycin the average exposure to sorafenib decreased by 54%. Effects of other antibiotics  have not been studied, but will likely depend on their ability to interfere with microorganisms with  glucuronidase activity.  
 8 