4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Clinically significant interactions mediated by umeclidinium/vilanterol at clinical doses are considered unlikely due to the low plasma concentrations achieved after inhaled dosing.  
 Beta-adrenergic blockers  
 Beta2-adrenergic blockers may weaken or antagonise the effect of beta 2-adrenergic agonists, such as vilanterol . Concurrent use of either non- selective or selective beta- adrenergic blockers should be avoided unless there are compelling reasons for their use.  
 Metabolic and transporter b ased interactions  
 Vilanterol is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole , clarithromycin,  itraconazole, ritonavir, telithromycin ) may inhibit the metabolism of, and increase the systemic exposure to, vilanterol. Co -administration with ketoconazole (400 mg) in healthy volunteers increased mean vilanterol AUC (0-t) and C max, 65% and 22% respectively. The increase in vilanterol exposure was not associated with an increase in beta- adrenergic agonist related systemic effects on heart rate, blood potassium or QT interval (corrected using the Fridericia method). Care is advised when co -administering umeclidinium/vilanterol with ketoconazole a nd other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors as there is potential for an increased systemic exposure to vilanterol, which could lead to an increase in the potential for adverse reactions . Verapamil, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, did not significantly affect the  pharmacokinetics of vilanterol.  
 Umeclidinium is a substrate of cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6). The steady- state pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium was assessed in healthy volunteers lacking CYP2D6 (poor metabolisers). No effect on umeclidinium AUC or Cmax was observed at a 8- fold higher dose. An approximately 1.3- fold increase in umeclidinium AUC was observed at 16- fold higher dose with no effect on umeclidinium C max. Based on the magnitude of these changes, no clinically relevant interaction is expected when  umeclidinium/vilanterol is co-administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors or when administered to patients  genetically deficient in CYP2D6 activity (poor metabolisers). 
 Both umeclidinium and vilanterol are substrates of the P -glycoprotein transporter (P -gp). The  effect of the moderate P -gp inhibitor verapamil (240 mg once daily) on the steady- state pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium and vilanterol was assessed in healthy volunteers. No effect of verapamil was observed on 6 umeclidinium or vilanterol C max. An approximately 1.4 -fold increase in umeclidinium AUC was observed with no effect on vilanterol AUC. Based on the magnitude of these changes, no clinically relevant drug interaction is expected when umeclidinium/vilanterol is co-administered with P -gp inhibi tors. 
 Other antimuscarinic s and sympathomimetic s 
 Co-administration of  umeclidinium/vilanterol with other long- acting muscarinic antagonists, long -acting beta 2-adrenergic agonists or medicinal products containing either of these agents has not been studie d and is not recommended  as it may potentiate known inhaled muscarinic antagonist or beta 2-adrenergic agonist adverse reactions (see section s 4.4 and 4.9 ). 
 Hypokalaemia  
 Concomitant hypokalaemic treatment with methylxanthine derivatives, steroids, or non- potassium -sparing diuretics may potentiate the possible hypokalaemic effect of beta 2-adrenergic agonists, therefore use with caution (see section 4.4).  
 Other medicinal products for COPD  
 Although no formal in vivo drug interaction studies have been performed, inhaled umeclidinium/vilanterol has been used concomitantly with other COPD medicinal products including short acting sympathomimetic bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids without clinical evidence of drug int eractions.  
 
