4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 The likelih ood of metabolic interactions is low due to limited metabolism and plasma protein binding and almost complete renal elimination of unchanged substance.  
 Lamivudine is predominantly eliminated by active organic cationic secretion. The possibility of intera ctions with other medicinal products administered concurrently should be considered, particularly when their main route of elimination is active renal secretion via the organic cationic transport system e.g. trimethoprim. Other medicinal products (e.g. ranitidine, cimetidine) are eliminated only in part by this mechanism and were shown not to interact with lamivudine.  
 Substances shown to be predominately excreted either via the active organic anionic pathway, or by glomerular filtration are unlikely to yield clinically significant interactions with lamivudine.  Administration of trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole 160 mg/800 mg increased lamivudine exposure by about 40 %. Lamivudine had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of trimethoprim or sulphamethoxazole. However, unless the patient has renal impairment, no dosage adjustment of lamivudine is necessary.  
 A modest increase in C max (28 %) was observed for zidovudine when administered with lamivudine, however overall exposure (AUC) was not significantly altered. Zidovudine had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lamivudine (see section 5.2).  
 Lamivudine has no pharmacokinetic inter action with alpha -interferon when the two medicinal products are concurrently administered. There were no observed clinically significant adverse interactions in patients taking lamivudine concurrently with commonly used immunosuppressant medicinal product s (e.g. cyclosporin A). However, formal interaction studies have not been performed.  
 Emtricitabine  Due to similarities, Lamivudine Teva should not be administered concomitantly with other cytidine analogues, such as emtricitabine. Moreover, Lamivudine Te va should not be taken with any other medicinal products containing lamivudine (see section 4.4) . 
 Cladribine  In vitro  lamivudine inhibits the intracellular phosphorylation of cladribine leading to a potential risk of cladribine loss of efficacy in case o f combination in the clinical setting. Some clinical findings also support a possible interaction between lamivudine and cladribine. Therefore, t he concomitant use of lamivudine with cladribine is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
 Sorbitol  Co-administration of sorbitol solution (3.2 g, 10.2 g, 13.4 g) with a single 300 mg dose (Adult HIV daily dose) of lamivudine oral solution resulted in dose -dependent decreases of 14%, 32%, and 36% in lamivudine exposure (AUC ∞) and 28%, 52%, and 55% in the C max of lamivudine in adults. When possible, avoid chronic co- administration of Lamivudine Teva w ith medicinal products containing sorbitol or other osmotic acting poly-alcohols or monosaccharide alcohols (e.g. xylitol, mannitol, lactitol, maltitol). C onside r more frequent monitoring of HBV viral load when chronic co-administration cannot be avoided.   
 
