4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Medicinal products associated with bleeding risk : There is an increased risk of bleeding due to the potential additive effect. The concomitant administration of medicinal products associated with bleeding risk should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4) . 
 Oral anticoagulants : the co ncomitant administration of clopidogrel with oral anticoagulants is not recommended since it may increase the intensity of bleedings (see section 4.4).  Although the administration of clopidogrel 75 mg/day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S -warfarin o r International Normalised Ratio (INR) in patients receiving long-term warfarin therapy, coadministration of clopidogrel with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding because of independent effects on hemostasis.  
 Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors:  clopidogrel should be used with caution in patients who receive concomitant glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (see section 4.4).  
 Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA):  ASA did not modify the clopidogrel -mediated inhibition of ADP -induced platelet aggregation, but clo pidogrel potentiated the effect of ASA on collagen -induced platelet aggregation. However, concomitant administration of 500  mg of ASA twice a day for one day did not significantly increase the prolongation of bleeding time induced by clopidogrel intake. A  
7  
 pharmacodynamic interaction between clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid is possible, leading to increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use should be undertaken with caution (see section 
4.4). However, clopidogrel and ASA have been administered  together for up to one year (see section 
5.1). 
 Heparin:  in a clinical study conducted in healthy subjects, clopidogrel did not necessitate modification of the heparin dose or alter the effect of heparin on coagulation. Co- administration of heparin had no effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation induced by clopidogrel. A pharmacodynamic interaction between clopidogrel and heparin is possible, leading to increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4).  
 Thrombolytics:  the safety of the concomitant administration of clopidogrel, fibrin or non-fibrin specific thrombolytic agents and heparins was assessed in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The incidence of clinically significant bleed ing was similar to that observed when thrombolytic agents and heparin are co -administered with ASA (see section 4.8).  
 NSAIDs:  in a clinical study conducted in healthy volunteers, the concomitant administration of clopidogrel and naproxen increased occult gastrointestinal blood loss. However, due to the lack of interaction studies with other NSAIDs it is presently unclear whether there is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding with all NSAIDs. Consequently, NSAIDs including Cox -2 inhibitors and clopidogrel should be co-administered with caution (see section 4.4).  
 SSRIs:  since SSRIs affect platelet activation and increase the risk of bleeding, the concomitant administration of SSRIs with clopidogrel should be undertaken with caution.  
 Other concomitant therapy:  
 Inducers of CYP2C19 Since clopidogrel is metabolis ed to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19, use of  medicinal products that induce the activity of this enzyme would be expected  to result in increased drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel.  
 Rifampicin strongly induces CYP2C19, resulting in both an increased level of  clopidogrel active metabolite and platelet inhibition, which in particular might potentiate  the risk of bleeding.  As a precaution , concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers should be discouraged (see section 4.4).  
 Inhibitors of CYP2C19 Since clopidogrel is metabolised to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19, use of medicinal products that inhibit the  activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in reduced drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel. The clinical relevance of this interaction is uncertain. As a precaution concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors should be  discouraged (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).  
 Medicinal products that are strong or moderate  CYP2C19 inhibitors include , for example,  omeprazole and esomeprazole, fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, moclobemide, voriconazole, fluconazole, ticlopidine, carbamazepine, and efavirenz.  
 Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPI):  Omeprazole 80  mg once daily administered either at the same time as clopidogrel or with 12 hours between the administrations of the two drugs decreased the exposure of the active metabolite by 45% (loading dose) and 40% (maintenance dose). The decrease was associated with a 39% (loading dose) and 21% (maintenance dose) reduction of inhibition of platelet aggregation.  Esomeprazole is expected to give a similar interaction with clopidogrel. 
  
8  
 Inconsistent data on the clinical implications of this pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD)  interaction in terms of major cardiovascular events have been reported from both observational and clinical studies. As a precaution, concomitant use of omeprazole or esomepr azole shoul d be discouraged (see section 4.4).  
 Less pronounced reductions of metabolite exposure has been observed with pantoprazole or lansoprazole.  The plasma concentrations of the active metabolite was 20% reduced (loading dose) and 14% reduced (maintenance dose)  during concomitant t reatment with pantoprazole 80  mg once daily. This was associated with a reduction of the mean inhibition of platelet aggregation by 15% and 11%, respectively. These results indicate that clopidogrel can be administered with pantoprazol e. 
 There is no evidence that other medicinal products that reduce stomach acid such as H2 blockers or antacids interfere with antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel. 
 Boosted anti -retroviral therapy (ART):  HIV patients treated with boosted anti -retroviral t herapies (ART) are at high risk of vascular events.  
 A significantly reduced platelet inhibition has been shown in HIV patients treated with ritonavir -or cobicistat -boosted ART. Although the clinical relevance of these findings is uncertain, there have been spontaneous reports of HIV -infected patients treated with ritonavir boosted ART, who have experienced re-occlusive events after de-obstruction or have suffered thrombotic events under a clopidogrel loading treatment schedule. Average platelet inhibition can be decreased with concomitant use of clopidogrel and ritonavir. Therefore, concomitant use of clopidogrel with ART boosted therapies should be discouraged.  
 Other medicinal products:  A number of other clinical studies have been conducted with clopidogr el and other concomitant medicinal products to investigate the potential for pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions. No clinically significant pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when clopidogrel was co -administered with atenolol, nifedipine, or both atenolol and nifedipine.  Furthermore, the pharmacodynamic activity of clopidogrel was not significantly influenced by the co-administration of phenobarbital  or oestrogen.  
 The pharmacokinetics of digoxin or theophylline were not modified by the co -administration of clopidogrel. Antacids did not modify the extent of clopidogrel absorption.  
 Data from the CAPRIE study indicate that phenytoin and tolbutamide which are metabolised by  CYP2C9 can be safely co -administered with clopidogrel. 
 CYP2C8 substrate medicinal products: Clopidogrel has been shown to increase repaglinide exposure in healthy volunteers. In vitro  studies have shown the increase in repaglinide exposure is due to inhibition of CYP2C8 by the glucuronide metabolite of clopidogrel. Due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations, concomitant administration of clopidogrel and drugs primarily cleared by CYP2C8 metabolism (e.g., repaglinide, paclitaxel) should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4) . 
 Apart from the specif ic medicinal product interaction information described above, interaction studies with clopidogrel and some medicinal products commonly administered in patients with atherothrombotic disease have not been performed. However, patients entered into clinical trials with clopidogrel received a variety of concomitant medicinal products including diuretics, beta blockers, ACEI, calcium antagonists, cholesterol lowering agents, coronary vasodilators, antidiabetic agents (including insulin), antiepileptic agents an d GPIIb/IIIa antagonists without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions.  
  
9  
 As with other oral P2Y12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists has the potential to delay and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel presumably because of s lowed gastric emptying. The clinical relevance is unknown. Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent in acute coronary syndrome patients requiring co-administration of morphine or other opioid agonists.  
 Rosuvastatin: Clopidogrel has been shown t o increase rosuvastatin exposure in patients by 2 -fold (AUC) and 1.3 -fold (C max) after administration of a 300  mg clopidogrel dose, and by 1.4-fold (AUC) without effect on C max after repeated administration of a 75  mg clopidogrel dose.  
 
