4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Clinically significant interactions mediated by umeclidinium at clinical doses are considered unlikely due to the low plasma concentrations achieved after inhaled dosing.  
 Other antimuscarinics  
  Co-administration of  umeclidinium with other long acting muscarinic antagonists or medicinal products containing this active substance has not been studied and is not recommended as it may potentiate known inhaled muscarinic antagonist  adverse reactions.   
 Metabolic and transpo rter based interactions  
 Umeclidinium is a substrate of cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6). The steady- state pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium  were assessed in healthy volunteers lacking CYP2D6 (poor metabolisers). No effect on umeclidinium AUC or C max was observed at a dose 4- fold higher than the therapeutic dose. An approximately 1.3- fold increase in umeclidinium AUC was observed at a n 8-fold higher dose with no effect on umeclidinium  Cmax. Based on the magnitude of these changes, no clinically releva nt interaction is expected when umeclidinium is co -administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors or when administered to subjects genetically deficient in  CYP2D6  activity  (poor metabolisers).  
 Umeclidinium is a substrate of P -glycoprotein (P -gp) transporter. The eff ect of the moderate P -gp inhibitor verapamil (240  mg once daily) on the steady- state pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium was assessed in healthy volunteers. No effect of verapamil was observed on umeclidinium C max. An approximately 1.4- fold increase in umecli dinium AUC was observed. Based on the magnitude of these changes, no clinically relevant interaction is expected when umeclidinium is co -administered with P -gp inhibitors.  
 Other medicinal products for COPD  
 Although no formal in vivo interaction studies have been performed, inhaled umeclidinium has been used concomitantly with other COPD medicinal products including short and long acting sympathomimetic bronchodilators and inhaled cortico steroids without clinical evidence of interactions.  
 
