4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Concomitant administration of benzodiazepines or other hypnosedatives or respiratory depressants may be associated with excessive sedation and respiratory depression or respiratory failure. If benzodiazepine therapy is deemed necessary in addition to loxapine, patients should be monitored for excessive sedation and for orthostatic hypotension.  
 A study of inhaled loxapine and intramuscular lorazepam 1 mg in combination found no significant effects on respiratory rate, pulse oximetry, blood pressure, or heart rate compared with either drug administered alone. Higher doses of lorazepam have not been studied. The effects of the combination on sedation appeared to be additive. 
 Potential for ADASUVE to affect other medicinal products  
 Loxapine is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with medicinal products that are either metabolised by cytochrome P450 (CYP450) isozymes or glucuronidated by human uridine 5’-diphosphoglucuronosyl transferases (UGTs).  
 Caution is advised if loxapine is combined with other medicinal products known to lower the seizure threshold, e.g. phenothiazines or butyrophenones, clozapine, tricyclics or selective serotonine reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), tramadol, mefloquine (see section 4.4). 
 In vitro studies indicated that loxapine was not a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp), but does inhibit P-gp. At therapeutic concentrations, however, it is not expected to inhibit P-gp-mediated transport of other medicinal products in a clinically significant manner. 
 Given the primary CNS effects of loxapine, ADASUVE should be used with caution in combination with alcohol or other centrally acting medicinal products, e.g., anxiolytics, most antipsychotics, hypnotics, opiates, etc. The use of loxapine in patients with alcohol or medicinal product intoxication (either with prescribed or illicit medicinal products) has not been evaluated. Loxapine may cause severe respiratory depression if combined with other CNS-depressants (see section 4.4). 
 Potential for other medicinal products to affect ADASUVE 
 Loxapine is a substrate for flavin-containing mono-oxygenases (FMOs), and for several CYP450 isozymes (see section 5.2). Therefore, the risk of metabolic interactions caused by an effect on an individual isoform is limited. Caution should be used in patients receiving concomitant treatment with other medicinal products that are either inhibitors or inducers of these enzymes, particularly if the concomitant medicinal product is known to inhibit or induce several of the enzymes involved in loxapine metabolism. Such medicinal products may modify efficacy and safety of ADASUVE in an  
6 irregular manner. Concomitant use of CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g. fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin, enoxacin, propranolol and refecoxib) should be avoided, if possible. 
 Adrenaline 
 Co-administration of loxapine and adrenaline may cause worsening of hypotension (see section 4.4). 
 
