4.5 and 5.1).  
 If dual blockade therapy is considered absolutely necessary, this should only occur under specialist supervision and subject to frequent  close monitoring of renal function, electrolytes  and blood pressure.  ACE  inhibitors and ARBs  should not be used  concomitantly in patients with diabetic nephropathy.  
 Exforge has not been studied in any patient population other than hypertension.  
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interactions common to the combination  
 No drug -drug interaction studies have been  performed with Exforge and other medicinal products.  
 To be taken into account with concomitant use  Other antihypertensive agents  Commonly used antihypertensive agents (e.g. alpha blockers, diuretics) and other medicinal products which may cause hypotensive adverse effects (e.g. tricyclic antidepressants, alpha blockers for treatment of benign prostate hyperplasia) may increase the a ntihypertensive effect of the combination.  
 Interactions linked to amlodipine  
 Concomitant use not recommended  Grapefruit or grapefruit juice  Administration of amlodipine with grapefruit or grapefruit juice is not recommended as bioavailability may be increased in some patients, resulting in increased blood pressure lowering effects.  
 Caution required with c oncomitant use  CYP3A4 inhibitors  Concomitant use of amlodipine with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (protease inhibitors, azole antifungals, macrolides like erythromycin or clarithromycin, verapamil or diltiazem) may give rise to significant increase in amlodipine exposure. The clinical translation of these pharmacokinetic variations may be more pronounced in the elderly. Clinical monitoring and dose adjustment may thus be required.  
 CYP3A4 inducers (anticonvulsant agents  [e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, fosphenytoin, primidone ], rifampicin, Hypericum perforatum)  Upon co-administration of known inducers of the CYP3A4, the plasma concentration of amlodipine may vary. Therefore, blood pressure should be monitored and dose regulation considered both during and after concomitant medication particularly with strong CYP3A4 in ducers (e.g. rifampicin, hypericum perforatum).  
 Simvastatin  Co-administration of multiple doses of 10  mg amlodipine with 80  mg simvastatin resulted in a 77% increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone. It is recommended to limit the dose of simvastatin to 20  mg daily in patients on amlodipine.  
 7 Dantrolene (infusion)  In animals, lethal ventricular fibrillation and cardiovascular collapse are observed in association with hyperkalaemia after administration of verapamil and intravenous dantrolene. Due to risk of hyperkalaemia, it is recommended that the co -administration of calcium channel blockers such as amlodipine be avoided in patients susceptible to malignant hyperthermia and in the management of malignant hyperthermia.  
 To be taken into account with c oncomitant use  Others  In clinical interaction studies, amlodipine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin, digoxin, warfarin or ciclosporin.  
 Interactions lin ked to v alsartan  
 Concomitant use not recommended  Lithium  Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including valsartan . Theref ore, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended during concomitant use. If a diurectic is also used, the risk of lithium toxicity may presumably be increased further with Exforge.  
 Potassium -sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, s alt substitutes containing potassium  and other substances that may increase potassium levels  If a medicinal product that affect s potassium levels is to be prescribed in combination with valsartan, monitoring of potassium plasma levels is advised.  
 Caution required with c oncomitant use  Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory medicines (NSAIDs), including selective COX -2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (>3  g/day), and non -selective NSAIDs  When angiotensin II antagonists are administered simultaneously with NS AIDs attenuation of the antihypertensive effect may occur. Furthermore, concomitant use of angiotensin II antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an increased risk of worsening of renal function and an increase in serum potassium. Therefore, monitoring of renal  function at the beginning of the treatment is recommended, as well as adequate hydration of the patient.  
 Inhibitors of the uptake transporter (rifampicin, ciclosporin) or efflux transporter (ritonavir)  The results of an in vitro  study with human liver tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and of the hepatic efflux transporter MRP2. Co -administration of inhibitors of the uptake transporter (rifampicin, ciclosporin) or efflux transp orter (ritonavir) may increase the systemic exposure to valsartan.  
 Dual blockade of the RA AS with ARBs, ACE  inhibitor s or aliskiren  Clinical trial data have shown that dual blockade of the RAAS through the combined use of ACE  inhibitors, ARBs  or aliskiren  is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS -acting agent (see sections  4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).  
 Others  In monotherapy with valsartan, no interactions of clinical significance have been found with the following substances : cimetidine, warfarin, furosemide, digoxin, atenolol, indometacin, hydrochlorothiazide, amlodipine, glibenclamide.  
 8 