4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Agents that affect CYP3A4 activity  Fentanyl is metabolised mainly via the human cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzyme system (CYP3A4), therefore potential interactions may occur when Effentora  is given concurrently with agents that affect CYP3A4 activity.  
 CYP3A4 inducers  Co-administration with age nts that induce 3A4 activity may reduce the efficacy of Effentora .  
 CYP3A4 inhibitors  The concomitant use of Effentora  with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, troleandomycin, clarithromycin, and nelfinavir) or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., amprenavir, aprepitant, diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole, fosamprenavir, grapefruit juice, and 9 verapamil) may result in increased fentanyl plasma concentrations, potentially causing serious adverse drug reactions  including fatal respiratory depression. Patients receiving Effentora  concomitantly with moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors should be carefully monitored for an extended period of time. Dosage increase should be done with caution.  
 Agents that can increase CNS depressant effects  Co-administration of fentanyl with other central nervous system depressants, including other opioids, sedati ves or hypnotics, (including benzodiazepines) , general anaesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquillisers, skeletal muscle relaxants, sedating antihistamines, gabapentinoids (gabapentin and pregabalin)  and alcohol can produce additive depressant effects which may result in respiratory depression, hypotension, profound sedation, coma or  a fatal outcome (see section 4.4).  
 Sedative medicines such as benzodiazepines or related drugs The concomitant use of opioids with sedative medicines such as benzodiazepines or re lated drugs increases the risk of sedation, respiratory depression, coma and death because of additive CNS depressant effect. The dose and duration of concomitant use should be limited (see section 4.4).  
 Partial opioid agonists/antagonists  The concomitant  use of partial opioid agonists/antagonists (e.g. buprenorphine, nalbuphine, pentazocine) is not recommended. They have high affinity to opioid receptors with relatively low intrinsic activity and therefore partially antagonise the analgesic effect of fent anyl and may induce withdrawal symptoms in opioid dependant patients.  
 Serotoninergic agents  Co-administration of fentanyl with a serotoninergic agent, such as a Selective Serotonin Re -uptake Inhibitor (SSRI) or a Serotonin Norepinephrine Re -uptake Inhibit or (SNRI) or a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI), may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life -threatening condition. Effentora is not recommended for use in patients who have received MAOIs within 14  days because severe and unpredictab le potentiation by MAOIs has been reported with opioid analgesics.  
 Sodium oxybate  Concomitant use of medicinal products containing sodium oxybate and fentanyl is contraindicated (see section  4.3). The treatment with sodium oxybate should be discontinued before start of treatment with Effentora .  
 
