4.5 Interacti on with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Note: The prescribing information of concomitant medic inal products should be consulted to identi fy potential interactions.  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  During clinical trials with patients treated for hepatitis C virus infections (HCV)  with medicinal products containing ombitasvir/parita previr/ritonavir and dasabuvir  with or without ribavirin , transaminase  (ALT ) elevations higher than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred signific antly more frequently in women using ethinyl  estradiol -containing medications such as combined hormonal contraceptives (CHCs). Additionally, also in patients treated with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir or sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir, ALT elevations were observed in women using ethinyl  estradiol -conta ining medications such as CHCs (see section  4.3).  Therefore, EVRA -users must switch to an alternative method of contraception (e.g., pro gestagen -only contraception or non- hormonal methods) prior to starting t herapy with th ese combination drug regimens. EVRA can be restarted 2  weeks following completion of treatment with th ese combination drug regimens . 
 12 Effects of other medicinal products on E VRA Interactions can occur with drugs that induce microsomal enzymes which can result in increased  clearance of sex hormones and which  may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. The following interactions have been reporte d in the lite rature.  
 Substances increasing the clearance of CHCs (diminished eff icacy of CHCs by enzyme- induction) ,e.g.: Barbiturates, bosentan, carbamazepine, phenytoin, primidone, rifampicin, modafinil , and HIV medication s ritonavir, nevirapine and efavirenz ; and po ssibly also felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, topiramate and products containing the herbal rem edy St. John's Wort ( hypericum perforatum ). 
 Management  Enzyme induction may be observed after a few days of treatment. Maximal enzyme induction is general ly seen in about 10 days but may then be sustained for at least 4 we eks after the cessation of medicinal  product therapy.  
 Short -term  A woman on short -term treatment with medicinal products that induce hepatic drug metaboli sing enzymes or individual active  substances that induce these enzymes should temporarily use a barri er method in addition to EVRA, i.e . during the time of concomitant medicinal product administration and for 28  days after their discontinuation.  
 If concomitant medicinal product administr ation extends beyond the end of the three -week patch period, the next transdermal patch should be appl ied without the usual transdermal patch- free interval.  
 Long -term In women on long- term treatment with enzyme- inducing active substances, another reliable, non-hormonal, method of contraception is recommended.  
 Substances with variable effects on the clea rance of C HCs When co -administered with C HCs, many combinations of HIV protease inhibitors and non- nucle oside  reverse transcriptase inhibitors, including c ombinations with HCV inhibitors  can increase or decrease plasm a conc entrations of estrogen or progest ins. The net effect of these changes may be clinically relevant in some cases.  
 Therefore, the prescribing information of concomitant HIV medications shoul d be consulted to identify potential interactions and any related re commendations. In c ase of any dou bt, an additional barrier contraceptive m ethod should be used by women on protease inhibitor or  non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor therapy.  
 Inhibition of ethinyl e stradiol metabolism  Etoricoxib has been shown t o increase plasma levels of ethin yl estradiol (50 to 60%) when taken conco mitantly with an oral tr iphasic hormonal contraceptive . It is thought that etoricoxib increases ethinyl  estradiol levels because it inhibits sulfotransferase activity thereby inhibit ing ethinyl  estradiol metabolism.  
 Effect of EVRA on other medicinal produ cts Hormonal contraceptives may affect the metabolism of certain other active substances. Accordingly, plasma and tissue co ncentrations may increase (e.g. ciclosporin). Dosage adjust ment of the concomitant medicinal  product may be necessary.  
 Lamotrigine: Combined hormonal contraceptives have been shown to significantly decrease  plasma concentrations of lamotrigine when coadministered likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronida tion. This may reduce seizure con trol; therefore, dosage adjustments of  lamotrigine may be necessary.  
 13 Laboratory tes ts The use of contraceptive  steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, including biochemical parameters of liver, thyr oid, adrenal and renal function, plasma levels of (carrier) proteins, e.g.  corticosteroid -binding globulin and lipid/lipoprotein fractions, parameters of carbohydrate metabolism and parame ters of coagulation and fibrinolysis. Changes generally remain within the normal laboratory range.  
 
