4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Digoxin 
 When telmisartan was co -administered with digoxin, median increases in digoxin peak plasma concentration (49%) and in trough concentration (20%) were observed. When initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing telmisartan, monitor digoxin levels in order to mainta in levels within the therapeutic range.As with other medicinal products acting on the r enin-angiotensin -aldosterone system, telmisartan may provoke hyperkalaemia (see section 4.4). The risk may increase in case of treatment combination with other medicin al products that may also provoke hyperkalaemia ( salt substitutes containing potassium, potassium -sparing diuretics, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists , non steroidal anti -inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs, including selective COX -2 inhibitors), heparin, immunosuppressives (cyclosporin or tacrolimus), and trimethoprim ).The occurrence of hyperkalaemia depends on associated risk factors. The risk is increased in case of the above -mentioned treatment combinations. The risk is particula rly high in combination with potassium sparing -diuretics, and when combined with salt substitutes containing potassium. A 7combination with ACE inhibitors or NSAIDs, for example, presents a lesser risk provided that precautions for use are strictly followed .Concomitant use not recommended .Potassium sparing diuretics or potassium supplements 
 Angiotensin II receptor antagonists such as telmisartan ,attenuate diuretic induced potassium loss. Potassium sparing diuretics e.g. spirinolactone, eplerenone, triamterene, or amiloride, potassium supplements, or potassium -containing salt substitutes may lead to a significant increase in serum potassium. If concomitant use is indicated because of documented hypokalaemia, they should be used with caution and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium.Lithium 
 Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, and with angiotensin II recep tor antagonists, including telmisartan. If use of the combination proves necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. Concomitant use requiring caution .Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory medicinal products 
 NSAIDs (i.e. acetylsalicylic acid at anti -inflammatory dosage regimens, COX -2 inhibitors and non -selective NSAIDs) may reduce the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists.In some patients with compromised renal function (e.g. dehydra ted patients or elderly patients with compromised renal function), the co -administration of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and agents that inhibit cyclo -oxygenase may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal fa ilure, which is usually reversible. Therefore, the combination should be administered with caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and consideration should be given to monitoring of renal function after initiation of conc omitant therapy and periodically thereafter.In one study the co -administration of telmisartan and ramipril led to an increase of up to 2.5 fold in the AUC 0-24 and C max of ramipril and ramiprilat. The clinical relevance of this observation is not known .Diuretics (thiazide or loop diuretics)Prior treatment with high dose diuretics such as furosemide (loop diuretic) and hydrochlorothiazide(thiazide diuretic) may result in volume depletion ,and in a risk of hypotension when initiating therapy with telmis artan.To be taken into account with c oncomitant use .Other antihypertensive agents The blood pressure lowering effect of telmisartan can be increased by concomitant use of other antihypertensive medicinal products.Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin -angiotensin -aldosterone -system (RAAS) through the combined use of ACE -inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hy potension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS -acting agent (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).8Based on their pharmacological properties it can be expected that the following medici nal products may potentiate the hypotensive effects of all antihypertensives including telmisartan: Baclofen, amifostine. Furthermore, orthostatic hypotension may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics ,or antidepressants .Corticosteroïds (syst emic route)Reduction of the antihypertensive effect.
