4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No formal drug interaction studies have been performed. Clinically significant interactions between  trastuzumab  and the concomitant medicinal products used in clinical trials have not been observed.  
 Effect of trastuzumab on the pharmacokinetics of other antineoplastic agents  
 Pharmacokinetic data from studies BO15935 and M77004 in women with HER2 -positive MBC  suggested tha t exposure to paclitaxel and doxorubicin (and their major metabolites 6 -α hydroxyl -paclitaxel, POH, and doxorubicinol, DOL) was not altered in the presence of trastuzumab 9  (8 mg/kg or  4 mg/kg intravenous loading dose followed by 6 mg/kg q3w or 2 mg/kg q1w intravenous dose , respectively).  However, trastuzumab may elevate the overall exposure of one doxorubicin metabolite, (7 -deoxy -13 dihydro -doxorubicinone, D7D). The bioactivity of D7D and the clinical impact of the elevation of this  metabolite was unclear.  
 Data from study JP16003, a single -arm study of  trastuzumab (4 mg/kg  intravenous  loading dose and 
2 mg/kg intravenous dose  weekly) and docetaxel (60 mg/m2 intravenous dose ) in Japanese women with HER2 -positive MBC, suggested that  concomitant administration of trastuzumab  had no effect on the single -dose pharmacokinetics of  docetaxel. Study JP19959 was a substudy of BO18255 (To 
 GA) performed in male and female  Japanese patients with advanced gastric cancer to study the pharmacokineti cs of capecitabine and  cisplatin when used with or without trastuzumab . The results of this substudy suggested that the  exposure to the bioactive metabolites (e.g. 5 -FU) of capecitabine was not affected by concurrent use of  cisplatin or by concurrent use o f cisplatin plus  trastuzumab . However, capecitabine itself showed higher  concentrations and a longer half -life when combined with trastuzumab . The data also suggested that the  pharmacokinetics of cisplatin were not affected by concurrent use of capecitabin e or by concurrent use  of capecitabine plus trastuzumab . 
 Pharmacokinetic data from study  H4613g/GO01305 in patients with metastatic or locally advanced  inoperable HER2 -positive cancer suggested that trastuzumab had no impact on the PK of carboplatin.  
 Effect of antineoplastic agents on trastuzumab pharmacokinetics  
 By comparison of simulated serum trastuzumab concentrations after  trastuzumab  monotherapy (4 mg/kg  loading/2 mg/kg q1w intravenous ) and observed serum concentrations in Japanese  women with HER2 -positive  MBC (study JP16003) no evidence of a PK effect of concurrent administration of docetaxel on the  pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab was found.  
 Comparison of PK results from two Phase II studies (BO15935 and M77004) and one Phase III study  (H0648g) in which patients were treated concomitantly with  trastuzumab  and paclitaxel and two Phase II  studies in which  trastuzumab  was administered as monotherapy (W016229 and MO16982), in women  with HER2 -positive MBC indicates that individual a nd mean trastuzumab trough serum  concentrations varied within and across studies but there was no clear effect of the concomitant  administration of paclitaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab. Comparison of trastuzumab PK  data from study M77004 in which women with HER2 -positive MBC were treated concomitantly with  trastuzumab , paclitaxel and doxorubicin to trastuzumab PK data in studies where  trastuzumab  was administered as monotherapy (H0649g) or in combination with anthracycline plus cyclophosphami de or paclitaxel ( study H0648g), suggested no effect of doxorubicin and paclitaxel on the  pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab.  
 Pharmacokinetic data from study H4613g/GO01305 suggested that carboplatin had no impact on the  PK of trastuzumab.  
 The administratio n of concomitant anastrozole did not appear to influence the pharmacokinetics of  trastuzumab.  
 
