4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No specific drug interaction studies have been performed  with AZARGA . 
 AZARGA contains brinzolamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and, although administered topically, is absorbed systemically. Acid -base disturbances  have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibi tors. The potential for interactions  must be considered in patients receiving AZARGA.  
 There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase  inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and brinzolamide eye drops.  The concomitant administration of eye drops containing brinzolamide and oral carbonic anhydrase  inhibitors is not recommended.  
 The cytochrome P -450 isozymes responsible for metabolism of brinzolamide include CYP3A4  (main), CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8  and CYP2C9. It is expected that inhibitors of CYP3A4  such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, clotrimazole, ritonavir and troleandomycin will inhibit the metabolism of brinzolamide by CYP3A4. Caution is advised if CYP3A4  inhibitors are given concomitantly. However, accumulation of brinzolamide is unlikely as renal elimination is the major route. Brinzolamide is not an inhibitor of cytochrome P -450 isozymes.  
 There is a potential for additive effects resulting in hypotension and/or ma rked bradycardia when an ophthalmic beta -blocker solution is administered concomitantly with oral calcium channel blockers, beta-adrenergic blocking agents, antiarrhythmics  (including amiodarone), digitalis glycosides, parasympathomimetics , guanethidine . Beta blockers can decrease the response to adrenaline used to treat anaphylactic reactions.  Special caution should be exercised in patients with a history of atopy or anaphylaxis (see  section  4.4). 
 The hypertensive reaction to sudden withdrawal of clonidi ne can be potentiated when taking beta-blockers.  Caution is recommended in the concomitant use of this medicinal product with clonidine.  
 Potentiated systemic beta -blockade (e.g. decreased heart rate , depression ) has been reported during combined treatment with CY P2D6  inhibitors (e.g. quinidine, fluoxetine, parox etine) and timolol.  Caution is recommended.  
 Beta-blockers may increase the hypoglycaemic effect of antidiabetic agents. Beta -blockers can mask the signs and symptoms of hypoglycaemia (see section  4.4). 
 Mydriasis resulting from concomitant use of ophthalmic beta -blockers and adrenaline (epinephrine) has been reported occasionally.  
 
