4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Heart rate lowering medicinal products  
 Lasmiditan has been associated with a lowering of heart rate (HR). Propranolol and lasmiditan together decreased HR by a mean maximum of 19.3 beats per minute ( bpm), i.e., an additional lowering of 5.1 bpm compared to propranolol alone. This should be taken into consideration f or patients in whom these magnitudes of HR decrease may pose a concern, including patients taking medicinal products  that lower heart rate.  
 Serotonergic medicinal products  
 Concomitant administration of lasmiditan and medicinal products  (e.g., SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs) that increase serotonin may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome . Clinical experience for the use of 5 lasmiditan and triptans in temporal proximity is limited. The risks of developing serotonin syndrome may be additive . Caution is advised (see s ection  4.4).  
 Potential for lasmiditan to affect other medicinal products  
 Daily dosing of lasmiditan did not alter the PK of midazolam, caffeine, or tolbutamide, which are substrates of CYP3A, CYP1A2, and CYP2C9, respectively. Coadministration of lasmiditan with sumatriptan  (MAO- A and OCT1 substrate) or  propranolol  (CYP2D6 substrate)  resulted in no clinically meaningful changes in exposure of these medicinal products . Following a single dose of lasmiditan, creatinine renal clearance over 24  hours decreased slightly (11 %) compared with placebo, without changes in glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ). 
 Lasmiditan is an in vitro inhibitor of P -glycoprotein (P -gp) and breast cancer resistant protein (BCRP). In a drug interaction study, lasmiditan increased the systemic exposure of coadministered dabigatran (P-gp substrate) by approximately 25% . Therefore , when RAYVOW is administered with P -gp substrates that have  a narrow therapeutic index  (such as digoxin) , increases in the systemic exposure of the coadministered medication  may be clinically meaningful  (see section 5.2) . In the same study, no significant change in rosuvastatin (BCRP subst rate) PK was observed when it was coadministered with lasmiditan.  
 Potential for other medicinal products  to affect lasmiditan  
 No change in lasmiditan PK was observed when coadministered with dabigatran  etexilate, rosuvastatin, sumatriptan , or propranolol. Based on its metabolism clearance pathways, CYP inhibitors or inducers are unlikely to affect lasmiditan exposure and no change in lasmiditan PK was observed when coadministered with topiramate (CYP3A 4 inducer and CYP2C19 inhibitor).  
 
