4.5 and 4.6).Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
 Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22years of age) treated with TNF -blocking agents (initiation of therapy ≤18years of age), including Remicade in the post -marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents treated with TNF -blockers canno t be excluded.Post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T -cell lymphoma have been reported in patients treated with 
 TNF -blocking agents including infliximab. This rare type of T -cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is usually fatal. Almost all patients had received treatment with AZA or 6 -MP concomitantly with or immediately prior to a TNF -blocker. The vast majority of Remicade cases have occurred in patients with Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis and most were reported in adolescent or young adult males. The potential risk with the combination of AZA or 6 -MP and Remicade should be carefully considered. A risk for the development for hepatosplenic T -cell lymphoma in patients treated with Remicade cannot be excluded (see section 4.8).Sodium content 
 Remicade contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium -free’. Remicade is however, diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion. This should be taken into consideration for patients on a controll ed sodium diet (see section 6.6).
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 No interaction studies have been performed.In rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and Crohn's disease patients, there are indications t hat concomitant use of methotrexate and other immunomodulators reduces the formation of antibodies 13against infliximab and increases the plasma concentrations of infliximab. However, the results are uncertain due to limitations in the methods used for serum analyses of infliximab and antibodies against infliximab.Corticosteroids do not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of infliximab to a clinically relevant extent.The combination of Remicade with other biological therapeutics used to treat the same c onditions as Remicade, including anakinra andabatacept ,is not recommended (see section 4.4).It is recommended that live vaccines not be given concurrently with Remicade. It is also recommended that live vaccines not be given to infants after in utero exposure to infliximab for 12months following birth .If infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable or infliximab administration was limited to thefirst trimester of pregnancy, administration of a live vaccine might be considered at an earlier timepoi nt if there is a clear clinical benefit for the individual infant (see section 4.4).Administration of a live vaccine to a breastfed infant while the mother is receiving infliximab is not recommended unless infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable (see sections 4.4 and 4.6).It is recommended that therapeutic infectious agents not be given concurrently with Remicade (see section 4.4).
