4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No formal drug interaction studies have been performed. Clinically significant interactions between trastuzumab  and the concomitant medicinal products used in clinical trials have not been observed. 9  Effect of trastuzumab on  the pharma cokinetics of other antineoplastic agents 
 Pharmacokinetic data from studies BO1 5935 a nd M77004 in wo men wi th HER2 -positive MBC suggested  that exposure to paclitaxel and doxorubicin (and their major metabo lites 
6-α hydroxyl-paclitaxel, POH, and  doxorubicinol, DOL) was  not altered in the presence of trastuzumab (8  mg/kg or 4 mg/kg loading  dose as an intravenous infusion followed by 6 mg/kg q3w or 2 mg/kg q1w infusion , resp ectively).  Howe ver, tr astuzumab may ele vate the overall exposure of one doxorubicin metabolite (7-deoxy -13 dihydro-doxorub icinone, D7D). The bioactivity of D7D and the clinical impact of the elevation of this metabol ite was unclear. 
 Data  from study  JP1600 3, a single-arm study  of trastuzumab  (4 mg/kg loading  dose as an intravenous infusion and 2 mg/kg infusion  weekly) and docetaxel (60 mg/m2 intravenous infusion ) in Japanese women with HER2-positi ve MBC, suggested  that conco mitant administration of trastuzumab  had no effect on the single dose pharmacokinetics of doce taxel. Study JP19959  was a substudy of BO182 55 (To 
 GA) performed in male and female Japanese patients with advanced  gastric cancer to study the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine and cisplatin when used with or without trastuzumab . The results of this substudy suggested that the expos ure to the bioactive metabolites (e.g. 5-FU) of capecitabine was not affected by concur rent use of cisplatin or by  concurrent use of  cisplatin plus trastuzumab . Howe ver, ca pecitabine itself show ed higher conce ntrations and a longer half-life when combined  with trastuzumab . The data also suggested  that the phar macokinetics of cisplatin were not affected by concurrent use of capecitabine or by concurrent use of c apecitabine plus trastuzumab . 
 Pharmacokinetic data from Study  H4613 g/GO01305 in  patients with metastatic or locally advanced inoperable HER2 -positive cancer suggested  that trastuzumab had no impact on the PK of carboplatin. 
 Effect of antineoplastic agents on  trastuzumab pharm acokinetics 
 By comparison  of simulated serum trastuzumab concentrations after trastuzumab  monoth erapy (4 mg/kg loa ding/2 mg/kg q1w intravenous infusion ) and obs erved serum conce ntrations in Japanese women with HER2 -positive MBC ( study JP1600 3) no evidence  of a PK effect of concurrent administration of docetaxel on the phar macokinetics of trastuzumab was found.  
 Comparison of PK results from two Phase  II studies (BO15935 and  M77004) and one Phase III study (H0648 g) in which patients were  treated concomitantly with trastuzumab  and paclitaxel and two Phase II studies in which trastuzumab  was ad ministered as monotherapy  (W016229 and  MO16982),  in wo men with HER2-positive MBC indicates that individual and mean trastuzumab trough serum conce ntrations varied  within and  across studies but there was no clear effect of the conco mitant administration of paclitaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab. Comparison  of trastuzumab PK data from Study  M77004 in  which wo men with HER2 -positive MBC w ere treated conco mitantly with trastuzumab , paclitaxel and doxoru bicin to trastuzumab PK  data in studies w here trastuzumab  was administered as monoth erapy (H0649 g) or in  combination with anthracycline plus cyclopho sphamide or paclitaxel (H064 8g), suggested  no effect of doxoru bicin and paclitaxel on the phar macokinetics of trastuzumab. 
 Pharmacokinetic data from Study  H4613 g/GO01305 suggested  that carboplatin had no i mpact on the PK of trastuzumab. 
 The administration of concomitant anastrozole did not appear to influence the pharmacokinetics  of trastuzumab. 
 10 