4.5 Inter action with other me dicinal prod ucts and other forms o f interaction 
 Replagal should not be co -admi nistered wi thchloroquine, amiodarone, benoq uin o r gentamici n since these substances have the potentia l to inhibit intra -cellular α -galactosidase activity.Asα-galactosidase A is itself a nenzyme, it w ould be an unl ikely candidate for cytochrome P450 mediated drug -drug interaction s. In clinical s tudies , neuropath ic pain medi cinal products (such as carbamaze pine, phenytoin ,and gabapentin) were administered c oncurrently to most p atients with out any eviden ce of in teract ion.54.6Fertility, pregnancy and lact ation 
 Pregnancy 
 There is v erylimited da ta on pr egnancies exposed to Re plagal. Animal studies do not ind icate direct or indirect harmful effects with resp ect to pregnancy or em bryonic/f oetaldevelopment when exp osed during organogenesis (see section 5.3). Caution sho uld be exercised when prescribing to p regnant wom en.Breast -feeding 
 It is not known whether R eplagal is excreted in human milk. Caution shoul d be exercised when prescribing to b reast-feeding women.Fertil ity 
 No e ffects on male fertility were s een in repr oductive studies inmalerats.
4.7Effects on ability to dri ve and use machines 
 Replagal ha sno or negligible influence on the ability to d rive and use machines.
4.8Undesirab le effects 
 Summary of sa fety pr ofile 
 The most commonly reported adverse react ions were infu sion associated reacti ons, wh ichoccurred in 
13.7% of adult patients treated with Replagal in clinical trials. Most undesirabl e effects were mild to moderate in sev erity.Tabula tedlist of advers e reactions 
 Table 1 lists adverse reactions re ported for the 344patients trea ted with R eplagal in clinical trials, including 21 patients wi th history of end stage renal disease, 30paediatric patients ( ≤18years of age) and 17female pa tients, and from post -marketing spontaneous reports. Information is presented by system organ class and f requency (very common ≥1/10; common ≥1/100 to < 1/10; uncommon 
≥1/1,000 to < 1/100). The adverse reactions cat egorized as incid ence “not kn own (cannot beestimated from the available data)” are derived from post -marketin g spontaneous reports. Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The occurrence of an event in a single patient is defined as unc ommon in view of the number of patients treated. A single patient could be affected by several adverse re actions. The following adverse reactions have been identified for agalsidase alfa:Table 1System organ class Adverse rea ction 
 Very common Common Uncommon Not known 
 Metabolism and nutrition disordersperipheral oedema 
 Nervous system disorders headache , dizziness,neuropathic pain, tremor ,hypoesthesia,paraesthesiadysgeusi a, hypersomnia, parosmia 
 Eye disorders lacrimation increasedcorneal reflex decreased