4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 Strong CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the exposure of osimertinib. Osimer tinib may increase the exposure of breast cancer resistant protein ( BCRP )and P -glycoprotein (P -gp) substrates.Active substances that may increase osimertinib plasma concentrations 
 In vitro studies have demonstrated that the Phase I metabolism of osimertinib is predominantly via CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. In a clinical pharmacokinetic study in patients, co -administration with 200 mg itraconazole twice daily (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) had no clinica lly significant effect on the exposure of osimertinib (area under the curve (AUC) increased by 24% and C maxdecreased by 20%). Ther efore, CYP3A4 inhibitors are not likely to affect the exposure of osimertinib. Further catalyzing enzymes have not been ident ified.Active substances that may decrease osimertinib plasma concentrations 
 In a clinical pharmacokinetic study in patients, the steady -state AUC of osimertinib was reduced by 78% when co -administered with rifampicin (600 mg daily for 21 days). Similarl y, the exposure to metabolite AZ5104 decreased by 82% for the AUC and 78% for C max. It is recommended that concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers (e.g. Phenytoin, rifampicin and carbamazepine) with TAGRISSO should be avoided. Moderate CYP3A4 inducers (e. g. bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil) may also decrease osimertinib exposure and should be used with caution, or avoided when possible. There are no clinical data available to recommend a dose adjustment of TAGRISSO . Concomitant use of St. John’s Wort is contraindicated (see section 4.3).Effect of gastric acid reducing active substances on osimertinib 
 In a clinical pharmacokinetic study, co -administration of omeprazole did not result in clinically relevant changes in osimertinib exposur es.Gastr ic p 
 H modifying agents can be concomitantly used with TAGRISSO without any restrictions.Active substances whose plasma concentrations may be altered by TAGRISSOBased on in vitro studies, osimertinib is a competitive inhibitor of BCRP transporters.In a clinical PK study, co -administration of TAGRISSO with rosuvastatin (sensitive BCRP substrate) increased the AUC and C maxof rosuvastatin by 35% and 72%, respectively. Patients taking concomitant medicinal products with disposition dependent upon BCRP and with narrow therapeutic index should be closely monitored for signs of changed tolerability of the concomitant medication as a result of increased exposure whilst receiving TAGRISSO (see section 5.2).8In a clinical PK study, co -administration of TAGRISSO with simvastatin (sensitive CYP3A4 substrate) decreased the AUC and C maxof simvastatin by 9% and 23% respectively. These changes are small and not likely to be of clinical significance. Clinical PK interactions with CYP3A4 substrates are unlikely. A riskfor decreased exposure of hormonal contraceptives cannot be excluded.In a clinical Pregnane X Receptor (PXR) interaction study, co -administration of TAGRISSO with fexofenadine (P -gp substrate) increased the AUC and C maxof fexofenadine by 56% (90% CI 35 , 79) and 
76% (90% CI 49, 108) after a single dose and 27% (90% CI 11, 46) and 25% (90% CI 6, 48) at steady -state, respectively. Patients taking concomitant medications with disposition dependent upon P -gp and with narrow therapeutic index (e.g. digoxin, d abigatran, aliskiren) should be closely monitored for signs of changed tolerability as a result of increased exposure of the concomitant medication whilst receiving TAGRISSO (see section 5.2) . 
