4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Co-administration of 25 mg alogliptin once daily and 45 mg pioglitazone once daily for 12 days in healthy subjects had no clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of alogliptin, pioglitazone or their active metabolites.Specific p harm acokinetic drug i nteraction studies have not been performed with Incresync . The following section outlines the interactions observed with the individual components of Incresync(alogliptin/pioglitazone) as reported in their respective Summary of Produc t Characteristics.Interactions with pioglitazone 
 Co-administration of pioglitazone with gemfibrozil (an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2C8) is reported to result in a 3 -fold increase in AUC for pioglitazone. Since there is a potential for an increase in dose-related adverse reactions, a decrease in the dose of pioglitazone may be needed when gemfibrozil is concomitantly administered. Close monitoring of glycaemic control should be considered (see section 4.4).Co-administration of pioglitazone with rifamp icin (an inducer of cytochrome P450 2C8) is reported to result in a 54% decrease in AUC for pioglitazone. The pioglitazone dose may need to be increased when rifampicin is concomitantly administered. Close monitoring of glycaemic control should be consider ed (see section 4.4).Interaction studies have shown that pioglitazone has no relevant effect on either the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of digoxin, warfarin, phenprocoumon or metformin. Co -administration of pioglitazone with sulphonylureas does n ot appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of the sulphonylurea. Studies in man suggest no induction of the main inducible cytochrome P450, 1A, 2C8/9 and 3A4. Invitro studies have shown no inhibition of any subtype of cytochrome P450. Interactions with substances metabolised by these enzymes, e.g. oral contraceptives, cyclosporin, calcium channel blockers and HMGCo 
 A reductase inhibitors, are not to be expected. Effects of other medicinal products on alogliptin 
 Alogliptin is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine and metabolism by the cytochrome (CYP) P450 enzyme system is negligible (see section 5.2). Interactions with CYP inhibitors are thus not expected and have not been shown.9Results from clinical interaction studies also demonstrate that there are no clinically relevant effects of gemfibrozil (a CYP2C8/9 inhibitor), fluconazole (a CYP2C9 inhibitor), ketoconazole (a CYP3A4 inhibitor), cyclosporine (a p -glycoprotein inhibitor), voglibose (an alpha -glucosidase inhibitor), digoxin, metformin, cimetidin e, pioglitazone or atorvastatin on the pharmacokinetics of alogliptin.Effects of alogliptin on other medicinal products 
 Invitro studies suggest that alogliptin does not inhibit nor induce CYP 450 isoforms at concentrations achieved with the recommended dose of 25 mg alogliptin (see section 5.2).Interaction with substrates of CYP 450 isoforms are thus not expected and have not been shown. In studies invitro, alogliptin was found to be neither a substrate nor an inhibitor of key transporters associated with disposition of the active substance in the kidney: organic anion transporter -1, organic anion transporter -3 or organic cationic transporter -2 (OCT2). Furthermore, clinical data do not suggest interaction with p-glycoprotein inhibitors or substrates .In clinical studies, alogliptin had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of caffeine,(R)-warfarin, pioglitazone, glyburide, tolbutamide, (S)-warfarin, dextromethorphan, atorvastatin, midazolam, an oral contraceptive (norethindrone and eth inyl oestradiol), digoxin, fexofenadine ,metformin, or cimetidine, thus providing in vivo evidence of a low propensity to cause interaction with substrates of CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, p -glycoprotein, and OCT2.In healthy subjects, alogliptin had no effect on prothrombin time or International Normalised Ratio (INR) when administered concomitantly with warfarin. Combination of alogliptin with other anti -diabetic medicinal products 
 Results from alogliptin studies with metformin, pioglitazone (thiazo lidinedione), voglibose (alpha -glucosidase inhibitor) and glyburide (sulphonylurea) have shown no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions.
