4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Combivir contains lamivudine and zidovudine, therefore any interactions identified for these individually are relevant to Combivir. Clinical studies have shown that there are no clinically significant interactions between lamivu dine and zidovudine.  
 Zidovudine is primarily metabolised by UGT  enzymes; co -administration of inducers or inhibitors of UGT enzymes could alter zidovudine exposure. Lamivudine is cleared renally. Active renal secretion of lamivudine in the urine is mediated through organic cation transporters (OCTs); co -administration  of lamivudine with OCT inhibitors or nephrotoxic drugs may increase lamivudine exposure.  
 Lamivudine and zidovudine are not significantly metabolised by cytochrome P 450 enzymes (such as CYP 3A4, CYP 2C9 or CYP 2D6) nor do they inhibit or induce this enzym e system. Therefore, there is little potential for interactions with antiretroviral protease inhibitors, non -nucleosides and other medicinal products metabolised by major P 450 enzymes.  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. The list below  should not be considered exhaustive but  is representative of the classes studied.  
 Drugs by Therapeutic Area  Interaction  Geometric mean change (%)  (Possible mechanism)  Recommendation concerning co -administration  ANTIRETROVIRAL MEDICINAL PRODUCTS  Didanosine/Lamivudine  
 Interaction not studied.  No dosage adjustment necessary.  Didanosine  /Zidovudine  Interaction not studied.  Stavudine/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  Combination not recommended.  Stavudine/Zidovudine  In vitro antagonism of anti -HIV activity between stavudine and zidovudine could result in decreased efficacy of both drugs.  ANTI -INFECTIVE PRODUCTS  Atovaquone/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  As only limited data available the clinical significance is unknown.  Atovaquone/Zidovudine  
 (750 mg twice daily with food/200  mg thrice daily)  Zidovudine AUC 33% Atovaquone AUC  Clarithromycin/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  Separate administration of  Combivir  and clarithromycin by at least 2  hours  Clarithromycin/Zidovudine  (500 mg twice daily/100  mg every 4  hours)  Zidovudine AUC 12% Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole  (Co-trimoxazole)/Lamivudine  (160 mg/800  mg once daily for 
5 days/ 300 mg single dose)  Lamivudine: AUC 40% 
 Trimethoprim: AUC  Sulfamethoxazole: AUC  
 (organic cation transporter inhibition)  No Combivir dosage adjustment necessary, unless patient has renal impairment (See Section 4.2).  
 When concomitant administration with co -trimoxazole is warranted, patients should be monitored clinically. High doses of trimethoprim/ Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (Co-trimoxazole)/Zidovudine  Interaction not studied.  8 sulfamethoxazole  for the treatment of Pneumocystis jirovecii  pneumonia (PCP) and toxoplasmosis have not been studied and should be avoided.  ANTIFUNGALS  Fluconazole/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  As only limited data are available the clinical significance is not known.  Monitor for signs of zidovudine toxicity (see section 4.8).  Fluconazole/Zidovudine  (400 mg once daily/200  mg thrice daily)  Zidovudine AUC 74% 
 (UGT inhibition)  ANTIMYCOBACTERIALS  Rifampicin/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  Insufficient data to recommend dosage adjustment.  Rifampicin/Zidovudine  (600 mg once daily/200  mg thrice daily)  Zidovudine AUC 48% 
 (UGT induction)  ANTICONVULSANTS  Phenobarbital/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  Insufficient data to recommend dosage adjustment.  Phenobarbital/Zidovudine  Interaction not studied.  
 Potential to slightly decrease zidovudine plasma concentrations through UGT induction.  Phenytoin/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  Monitor phenytoin concentrations.  Phenytoin/Zidovudine  Phenytoin AUC   Valproic acid/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  As only limited data are available the clinical significance is not known.   Monitor for signs of zidovudine toxicity (see section 4.8).  Valproic acid/Zidovudine  (250 mg or 500  mg thrice daily/100  mg thrice daily)  Zidovudine AUC 80% 
 (UGT inhibition)  ANTIHISTAMINES (HISTAMINE H1 RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS)  Ranitidine/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  
 Clinically significant interaction unlikely. Ranitidine eliminated only in part by renal organic cation transport system.  No dosage adjustment necessary.  Ranitidine/Zidovudine  Interaction not studied  Cimetidine/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  
 Clinically significant interaction unlikely.  Cimetidine eliminated only in part by renal organic cation transport system.  No dosage adjustment necessary.  Cimetidine/Zidovudine  Interaction not studied.  CYTOTOXICS  Cladribine/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied  
 In vitro  lamivudine inhibits the intracellular phosphorylation of cladribine leading to a potential risk of cladribine loss of Therefore the  concomitant use of lamivudine with cladribine is not recommended  (see section 4.4)  9  Abbreviations:  = Increase; =decrease; = no significant change; AUC=area under the concentration versus time curve; C max=maximum observed concentration; CL/F=apparent oral clearance  
 Exacerbation of anaemia due to ribavirin has been reported when zidovudine is part of the regimen used to treat HIV although the exact mechanism remains to be elucidated. The concomitant use of ribavirin with zidovudine is not  recommended due to an increased risk of anaemia (see section 4.4).  
 Consideration should be given to replacing zidovudine in a combination ART regimen if this is already established. This would be particularly important in patients with a known history o f zidovudine induced anaemia.  
 Concomitant treatment, especially acute therapy, with potentially nephrotoxic or  myelosuppressive medicinal products (e.g. systemic pentamidine, dapsone, pyrimethamine, co -trimoxazole, amphotericin, flucytosine, ganciclovir, interferon, vincristine, vinblastine and doxorubicin) may also increase the risk of adverse reactions to zidovudine. If concomitant therapy with Combivir  and any of efficacy in case of combination in the clinical setting. Some clinical findings also support a possible interaction between lamivudine an d cladribine  OPIOIDS  Methadone/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  As only limited data are available the clinical significance is not known.  Monitor for signs of zidovudine toxicity (see section 4.8).  
 Methadone dosage adjustment unlikely in majority of patients; occasionally methadone re -titration may be required.  Methadone/Zidovudine  (30 to 90 mg once daily/200  mg every 4  hours)  Zidovudine AUC 43% Methadone AUC  URICOSURIC  Probenecid/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  As only limited data are available the clinical significance is not known.  Monitor for signs of zidovudine toxicity (see section 4.8).  Probenecid/Zidovudine  (500 mg four times daily/2mg/kg thrice daily)  Zidovudine AUC 106%  
 (UGT inhibition)  MISCELLANEOUS  Sorbitol solution (3.2g  , 10.2  g, 
13.4 g)/ Lamivudine  Single dose lamivudine oral solution 300 mg  Lamivudine:  AUC  14%; 32%; 36%  Cmax  28%; 52%, 55%.  When possible, avoid chronic coadministration of Combivir with medicinal products containing sorbitol  or other osmotic acting poly -alcohols or monosaccharide alcohols (e.g. xylitol, mannitol, lactitol, maltitol).  Consider more frequent moni toring of HIV -1 viral load when chronic coadministration cannot be avoided.  10 these medicinal products is necessary then extra care should be taken in monitoring renal f unction and haematological parameters and, if required, the dosage of one or more agents should be reduced.  Limited data from clinical trials do not indicate a significantly increased risk of adverse reactions to zidovudine with cotrimoxazole (see interact ion information above relating to lamivudine and co -trimoxazole), aerosolised pentamidine, pyrimethamine and acyclovir at doses used in prophylaxis.  
 
