4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Due to its α 1-adrenergic receptor antagonism, aripiprazole has the pot ential to enhance the effect of certain antihypertensive medicina l products . 
 9 Given the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be use d when aripiprazole is administered in  combination with alcohol or other CNS medicinal products with overlapping adverse reactions such as sedation (see section 4.8).  
 If aripiprazole is administered concomitantly with medicinal products known to cause QT prolongation or electrolyte imbalance, caution should be used.  
 Potential for other medicinal products to affect aripiprazole  
 A gastric acid blocker, the H2 antagonist famotidine, reduces aripiprazole rate of absorption but this effect is deemed not clinically relevant.  
 Aripiprazole is metabolised by multiple pathways involving the CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 enzymes but not CYP1A enzymes. Thus, no dosage adjustment is  required for smokers.  
 Quinidine and other CYP2D6 inhibitors  In a clinical trial in healthy subjects, a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6 (quinidine) increased aripiprazole AUC by 107%, while C max was unchanged. The AUC and C max of dehydro- aripiprazole, the acti ve metabolite, d ecreased by 32% and 47% , respectively . Aripiprazole  dose should be reduced to approximately one -half of its prescribed dose when concomitant administration of aripiprazole with quinidine occurs. Other strong  inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as fl uoxetine and paroxetine, may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose reductions should therefore be applied.  
 Ketoconazole and other CYP3A4 inhibitors  In a clinical trial in healthy subjects, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 (ketoconazole) increased aripiprazole AUC and C max by 63% and 37%, respective ly. The AUC and C max of dehydro- aripiprazole increased by 77% and 43%, respectively. In CYP2D6 poor metabolisers, concomitant use of strong  inhibitors of CYP3A 4 may result in higher plasma concentrations of aripiprazole compared to that in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. When considering concomitant administration of ketoconazole or other strong C YP3A4 inhibitors with aripiprazole , potential benefits should outwe igh the potential risks to the patient. When concomitant administrat ion of ketocona zole with aripiprazole occurs, aripiprazole  dose should be reduced to approximately one -half of its prescribed dose. Other strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as itraconazole and HIV protease inhibitors, may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose reductions should therefore be applied (see section 4.2) . 
 Upon discontinuation of the CYP2D6 or CYP 3A4 inhibitor, the dosage of aripiprazole  should be increased to the l evel prior to the initiation of the concomitant therapy.  
 When weak inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem) or CYP2D6 (e.g. escitalopram ) are used concomitantly with aripiprazole , modest increases in plasma aripiprazole concentrations may be expected.  
 Carbamazepine and other CYP3A4 inducers  Following concomitant administration of carbamazepine, a strong inducer of CYP3A4, and oral aripiprazole to patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, the g eometric means of  Cmax and AUC for aripiprazole were 68% and 73% lower, respectively, co mpared to when aripiprazole (30 mg) was administered alone. Similarly, for dehydro -aripiprazole the geometric means of C max and AUC after carbamazepine co -administratio n were 69% and 71% lower, respectively, than those following treatment with aripiprazole alone.  
 Aripiprazole dose should be doubled when concomitant administration of aripiprazole occurs with carbamazepine. Concomitant administration of aripiprazole and other  inducers of CYP3A4 (such as rifampicin, rifabutin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, efavirenz, nevirapine and St. John ’s 10 Wort) may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose increases should therefore be applied. Upon discontinuation of strong CYP3A4  inducers, the dosage of aripi prazole should be reduced to the recommended dose.  
 Valproate and lithium  When either valproate or lithium was administered concomitantly with aripiprazole, there was no clinically significant change in aripiprazole concentrations  and therefore  no dose adjustment is necessary when either valproate or lithium is administered with aripiprazole . 
 Potential for a ripiprazole to affect other medicinal products  
 In clinical studies, 10  – 30  mg/day doses of aripiprazole had no significant effect on the me tabolism of substrates of CYP2D6 (dextromethorphan/3- methoxymorphinan ratio), CYP 2C9 (warfarin), CYP 2C19 (omeprazole), and CYP 3A4 (dextromethorphan). Additionally, aripiprazole and dehydro-aripiprazole did no t show potential for altering CYP1A2- mediated metabolism in vitro . Thus, aripiprazole is unlikely to cause clinically important medicinal product interactions mediated by these enzymes.  
 When aripiprazole was administered concomitantly with either valproat e, lithium or lamotrigine, there was no clinically important change in valproate, lithium or lamotrigine concentrations.  
 Serotonin syndrome  Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported in patients taking aripiprazole, and possible signs and symptoms for  this condition can occur especially in cases of concomitant use with other serotonergic medicinal products, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor/selective serotonin noradrenalin e reuptake inhibitor  (SSRI/SNRI ), or with medicinal products that ar e known to increase aripiprazole concentrations (see section  4.8). 
 
