4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  Anticoagulant therapy should be monitored, particularly during the first few days after initiating Dynastat therapy in p atients receiving warfarin or other anticoagulants, since these patients have an increased risk of bleeding complications. Therefore, patients receiving oral anticoagulants should be closely monitored for their prothrombin time INR, particularly in the fir st few days when therapy with parecoxib is initiated or the dose of parecoxib is changed (see section 4.4).  
 Dynastat had no effect on acetylsalicylic acid -mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation or bleeding times. Clinical trials indicate that Dynasta t can be given with low dose acetylsalicylic acid ( 325 mg). In the submitted studies, as with other NSAIDs, an increased risk of gastrointestinal ulceration or other gastrointestinal complications compared to use of parecoxib alone was shown for concomita nt administration o f low -dose acetylsalicylic acid  (see section 5.1).  
 Coadministration of parecoxib and heparin did not affect the pharmacodynamics of heparin (activated partial thromboplastin time) compared to heparin alone.  
 Inhibition of prostaglandins by NSAIDs , including COX -2 inhibitors,  may diminish the effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists, beta -blockers and diuretics. This interaction should be given consideration in patients receiving p arecoxib concomitantly with ACE -inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists, beta -blockers and diuretics.  
 In patients who are elderly, volume -depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, includ ing selective COX -2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors  or Angiotensin -II antagonists, may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible ac ute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible.  7  Therefore, the concomitant administrati on of these drugs should be done with caution. Patients should be adequately hydrated and the need to monitor the renal function should be assessed at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter . 
 Coadministration of NSAIDs and ciclosporin  or tacrolimus has been suggested to increase the nephrotoxic effect of ciclosporin  and tacrolimus  because of NSAID  effect s on renal prostaglandins . Renal function should be monitored when parecoxib and any of these medicinal products are coadmin istered.  
 Dynastat may be coadmini stered with opioid analgesics. In clinical trials, the daily requirement for PRN opioids was significantly reduced when coadministered with parecoxib.  
 Effects of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of parecox ib (or its active metabolite valdecoxib)  Parecoxib is rapidly hydrolysed to the active metabolite valdecoxib. In humans, studies demonstrated that valdecoxib metabolism is predominantly mediate d via CYP3A4 and 2C9 isozymes.  
 Plasma exposure (AUC and C max) to valdecoxib was increased (62% and 19%, respectively) when coadministered with fluconazole (predominantly a CYP2C9 inhibitor), indicating that the dose of parecoxib should be reduced in those patients who are receiving fluconazole therapy.  
 Plasma exposure (AUC and C max) to valdecoxib was increased (38% and 24%, respectively) when coadministered with ketoconazole (CYP3A4 inhibitor), however, a dosage adjustment should not generally be necessary for patients receiving ketoconazole.  
 The effect of enz yme induction has not been studied. The metabolism of valdecoxib may  increase when coadministered with enzyme inducers such as rifampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine , or dexamethasone.  
 Effect of parecoxib (or its active metabolite valdecoxib) on the pharmac okinetics of other medicinal products  Treatment with valdecoxib (40  mg twice daily for 7 days) produced a 3 -fold increase in plasma  concentrations of dextromet horphan (CYP2D6 substrate). Therefore, caution should be observed when coadministering Dynastat a nd medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2D6 and which have narrow therapeutic margins (e.g. flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol).  
 Plasma exposure of omeprazole (CYP 2C19 substrate) 40 mg once daily was increased by 46% following administration of valdecoxib 40  mg twice daily for 7 days, while the plasma exposure to valdecoxib was unaffected. These results indicate that although valdecoxib is not metabolised by CYP2C19, it may be a n inhibitor of this isoenzyme. Therefore, caution shou ld be observed when administering Dynastat with medicinal products known to be substrates of CYP2C19 (e.g. phenytoin, diazepam, or imipramine).  
 In two pharmacokinetic  interaction studies in rheumatoid arthritis patients receiving a stable weekly methotrex ate dose (5 -20 mg/week, as a single oral or intramuscular dose),  orally administered valdecoxib ( 10 mg twice daily or  40 mg twice daily) had little or no  effect on the steady -state plasma concentrations of methotrexate. However  caution is  advised when methotrexate is administered concurrently with NSAIDs, because NSAID administration may result in increased plasma levels of methotrexate.  Adequate monitoring of methotrexate -related toxici ty should be considered when coadministering  parecoxib and methotre xate. 
 Coadministration of valdecoxib and lithium produced significant decreases in lithium serum clearance (25%) and renal clearance (30%) with a 34% higher serum expos ure compared to lithium alone. Lithium serum concentration should be monitored closely when initiating or changing parecoxib therapy in patients receiving lithium.  
 8 Coadministration of valdecoxib with glibenclamide (CYP3A4 substrate) did not affect either the pharmacokinetics (exposure) or the pharmacodynamics (blood glucose and insu lin levels) of glibenclamide.  
 Injectable anaesthetics  Coadministration of IV parecoxib 40 mg with propofol (CYP2C9 substrate) or midazolam (CYP3A4 substrate) did not affect either the pharmacokinetics (metabolism and exposure) or the pharmacodynamics (EEG  effects, psychomotor tests and waking from sedation) o f IV propofol or IV midazolam. Additionally, coadministration of valdecoxib had no clinically significant effect on the hepatic or intestinal CYP 3A4 -mediated metabolism of orally administered midazola m. Administr ation of IV parecoxib 40  mg had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of either IV fentanyl or IV alfentanil (CYP3A4 substrates).  
 Inhalation anaesthetics  No formal interaction studies have been done. In surgery studies in which parecox ib was administered pre-operatively, no evidence of pharmacodynamic interaction was observed in patients receiving parecoxib and the inhalation anaesthetic agents nitrous oxide and isoflurane (see section 5.1).  
 
