4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Pemetrexed  is mainly  eliminated  unchanged renally  by tubular secretion  and to a lesser  extent  by glomerular  filtration.  Concomitant admi nistration  of nephrotoxic  medicinal products   (e.g. aminoglycoside,  loop diuretics, platinum  compounds, cyclosp orin) could pot entially  result  in delayed  clearance of pe metrexed.  This combination should be used with caution.  If necessar y, creat inine clearance should be closely  monitored. 
 Concom itant adm inistration  of substan ces that are al so tubularly secreted  (e.g. probenecid, penicillin) could potentially result  in delayed clearance of pemetrexed. Caution should be made  when  these medicinal products  are combined with pemetrexed.  If necessar y, creatinine  clearance should be closely  monitored.  In patients  with normal renal function (c reatinine  clearance > 80 m l/min), high doses of NSAIDs  (such as ibuprof en > 1600 mg/da y) and acetylsalicylic acid   at higher dose (> 1.3 g daily)  may decrease pemetrexed  elimination and, conseque ntly, increase the occurrence  of pem etrexed  adverse reactions . Therefore,  caution  should be made  when  administering  higher doses of NSAIDs  or acetylsalicylic acid , concur rently  with pemetre xed to patients  with normal  function (creatinine clearan ce > 80 ml/min). 
 In patients  with mild to moderate renal  insufficiency  (creatinine  clearance  from 45 to 79 ml/m in), the concom itant adm inistration  of pem etrexed with NSAIDs  (e.g. ibuprofen) or acetylsalicylic acid  at higher  dose should  be avoided  for 2 da ys before,  on the day of, and 2 days following pem etrexed  administration (see  section  4.4). 
 In the absence of data regarding potential interaction  with NSAIDs  having longer half- lives  such as piroxicam or rofecoxib, the concom itant administration  with pem etrexed  in patients  with mild to moder ate renal insufficiency  should be interrupted for at least 5 days  prior  to, on the day of, and at least  
2 days following  pemetrexed  admi nistration  (see section  4.4). If concom itant administra tion of NSAIDs  is necessar y, patients should be monitored closely  for toxici ty, especially  myelosuppression and gastrointestinal  toxicity.  
 Pemetrexed  undergoes limited hepatic metabolism. Results  from  in vitro  studies  with hum an liver micros omes indicated that pem etrexed  would  not be predicted  to cause  clinical ly significant inhibition of the metabolic clearance  of medicines m etabolised  by C YP3A,  CYP2D6,  CYP2C9,  and CYP1A2.  
 Interactions common to al l cytotoxics  Due to the increas ed thrombotic risk in patients with cancer,  the use of anticoagulation  treatment  is frequent.  The high intra-individual variability  of the coagulation  status during dis eases and the possibility of interaction  between  oral anticoagulants and anticancer  chemotherapy require  increased frequency  of International Normalised Ratio  (INR ) monito ring, if it is decided  to treat the patient  with oral anticoagulants.  Concom itant use contraindicated: Yellow fever  vaccine: risk of fatal generalised  vaccinale  disease ( see section  4.3). Concom itant use not recommended: Li ve attenu ated vaccines (except yellow  fever,  for which concomit ant use is contraindicated):  risk of syste mic, possibly fatal,  disease.  The risk is increased in subjects who are already  immunosuppressed by their underlying disease.  Use an inactivated  vaccine where  it exists (polio myelitis)  (see section 4.4). 
 
 
 
 
  8 
 