4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interactio n 
 Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAO Is) 
 Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, duloxetine should not be used in combination with non-selective irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within at least 14 days of discontinuing treatment with an  MAOI. Based on the half -life of dul oxetine, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping Duloxetine Zentiva  before starting an MAOI (see section 4.3).  
 The concomitant use of Duloxetine Zentiva  with selective, reversible M AOIs, like moclobemide,  is not recommended (see section 4.4).  The antibiotic linezolid is a reversible non -selective MAOI and should not be given to patients treated with duloxetine (see section 4.4).  
 Inhibitors of CYP1A2  
 Because CYP1A2 is involved in du loxetine metabolism, concomit ant use of duloxetine with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 is likely to result in higher concentrations of duloxetine. Fluvoxamine (100  mg once daily), a potent inhibitor of CYP1A2, decreased the apparent plasma clearance of duloxe tine by about 77% and increas ed AUCo -t 6-fold. Therefore Duloxetine Zentiva should not be administered in combination with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 like fluvoxamine (see section 4.3).  
 CNS medicinal products  
 The risk of using duloxetine in combination with other CNS-active medicin al products has not been systematica lly evaluated, except in the cases described in this section. Consequently, caution is advised when duloxetine  is taken in combination with other centrally acting medicinal products or substances, including alcohol and s edative medicinal products (e.g. ben zodiazepines, morphinomimetics, antipsychotics, phenobarbital, sedative antihistamines).  
 Serotonergic agents 
 In rare cases, serotonin syndrome has been reported in patients using SSRIs /SNRIs concomitantly with serotonergic agents. Caution is  advisable if  duloxetine  is used concomitantly with serotonergic agents like SSRIs,  SNRIs, tricyclic antidepressants  like clomipramine or amitriptyline, MAOIs like moclobemide or linezolid, St. John’s wor t (Hypericum perforatum) or t riptans, buprenorphine,  tramadol, pethidine and try ptophan (see section 4.4) . 
 Effect of du loxetine on other medicinal products  
 Medicinal products metabolised by CYP1A2  The pharmacokinetics of theophylline, a CYP1A2 substrate, were not signi ficantly affected by co-administration with duloxetine (60  mg twice daily).  
 Medicinal products metabolis ed by CYP2D6  Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. When duloxetine w as administered at a dose of 60  mg twice daily with a single dose of desipr amine, a CYP2D 6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 
3-fold. The co -administration of duloxetine ( 40 mg twice daily) increases steady state AUC of tolterodine (2 mg twice daily) by 71 %, but does not affect the pharmacokinetics of its active 5 -hydroxyl metabolite and no dosage adjustment is recommended . Caution is advised if duloxetine  is co-administer ed with medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2D6 (risperidone, tricyclic antidepressants [TCAs] such as nortriptyline, amitripty line, and imipramine) particularly if they have a narrow therapeutic index (such as flecainide, propafeno ne and metoprolol).  
 Oral contraceptives and othe r steroidal agents  Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not induce the catalyt ic activity of CYP3A. Specific in vivo drug interaction studies have not been performed.  
  
9 Anticoag ulants and antiplatelet agents  Caution should be exercised when duloxetine is combined with oral anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents due to a potential incr eased risk of bleeding attributable to a pharmacodynamic interaction. Furthermore, increases in INR value s have been reported when duloxetine was co -administered to patients treated with warfarin. However, concomitant administration of duloxetine with warf arin under steady state conditions, in healthy volunteers, as part of a clinical pharmacology study, did not result in a clinically significant change in INR from baseline or in the pharmacokinetics of R - or S-warfarin. 
 Effects of other medicinal products  on duloxetine 
 Antacids and H2 antagonists  Co-administration of duloxetine with aluminium - and magnesium -containing antacids or duloxetine with famotidine had no significant effect on the rate or extent of duloxetine absorpti on after administration of a 4 0 mg oral dose. 
 Inducers of CYP1A2  Population pharmacokinetic analyses have shown that smokers have almo st 50% lower plasma concentrations of duloxetine compared with non -smokers. 
 
