4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Pemetrexed  is mainly eliminated unchanged renally by tubular secretion and to a lesser extent by glomerular filtration. Concomitant administration of nephrotoxic drugs (e.g. aminoglycoside, loop diuretics, platinum compounds, cyclosporin) could potentially result in delayed clearance of pemetrexed. This combination should be used with caution. If necessary, creatinine clearance should be closely monitored. 
 Concomitant administration of substances that are also tubularly secreted (e.g. probenecid, penicillin) could potentially result in delayed clearance of pemetrexed . Caution should be made when these drugs are combined with pemetrexed. If necessary, creatinine clearance should be closely monitored.  
 In patients with normal renal function (creatinine clearance ≥ 80 ml/min), high doses of non- steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen > 1,600 mg/day) and acetylsalicylic acid  at higher dose ( ≥ 1.3 g daily) may decrease pemetrexed  elimination and, consequently, increase the occurrence of pemetrexed  adverse reactions. Therefore, caution should be made when administering higher doses of NSAIDs or acetylsalicylic acid , concurrently with pemetrexed  to patients with normal function (creatinine clearance ≥  80 ml/min).  
 In patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance from 45 to 79 ml/min), the concomitant administration of pemetrexed  with NSAIDs (e.g. ibuprofen) or acetylsalicylic acid  at higher dose should be avoided for 2 days before, on the day of, and 2  days following pemetrexed  administration (see section  4.4). 
 In the absence of data regarding potential interaction with NSAIDs having longer half- lives such as piroxicam or rofecoxib, the concomitant administration with pemetrexed  in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency should be interrupted for at least 5  days prior to, on the day of, and at least 2  days following pemetrexed  administration (see section  4.4). If concomitant administration of NSAIDs is necessary, patie nts should be monitored closely for toxicity, especially myelosuppression and gastrointestinal toxicity.  
 Pemetrexed  undergoes limited hepatic metabolism. Results from in vitro  studies with human liver microsomes indicated that pemetrexed  would not be predicted to cause clinically significant inhibition of the metabolic clearance of drugs metabolised by CYP3A, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, and CYP1A2. 
 Intera ctions common to all cytotoxics  Due to the increased thrombotic risk in patients with cancer, the use of anticoagu lation treatment is frequent. The high intra -individual variability of the coagulation status during diseases and the possibility of interaction between oral anticoagulants and anticancer chemotherapy require increased frequency of INR (International Norma lised Ratio) monitoring, if it is decided to treat the patient with oral anticoagulants.  
 Concomitant use contraindicated: Yellow fever vaccine: risk of fatal generalised vaccine disease (see section  4.3). Concomitant use not recommended: Live attenuated v accines (except yellow fever, for which concomitant use is contraindicated): risk of systemic, possibly fatal, disease. The risk is increased in subjects who are already immunosuppressed by their underlying disease. Use an inactivated vaccine where it exists (poliomyelitis) (see section  4.4). 
 8 
 