4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Anticipated pharmacokinetic interactions resulting in effects on pasireotide  
 The influence of the P -gp inhibitor verapamil on the pharmacokinetics of subcutaneous pasireotide was tested in a drug -drug interaction study in healthy volunteers. No change in the pharmacokinetics (rate or extent of exposure) of pasireotide was observed.  
 Anticipated pharmacokinetic interactions resulting in effects on other medicinal products  
 Pasireotide may decrease the relative bioavailability of ciclosporin. Concomitant adm inistration of pasireotide and ciclosporin may require adjustment of the ciclosporin dose to maintain therapeutic levels . 
 Anticipated pharmacodynamic interactions  
 Medicinal products that prolong the QT interval  Pasireotide should be used with caution in patients who are concomitantly receiving medicinal products that prolong the QT interval, such as class Ia antiarrhythmics (e.g. quinidine, procainamide, disopyramide), class III antiarrhythmics (e.g. amiodarone, dronedarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide ), certain antibacterials (intravenous erythromycin, pentamidine injection, clarithromycin, moxifloxacin), certain antipsychotics (e.g. chlorpromazine, thioridazine, fluphenazine, pimozide, haloperidol, tiapride, amisulpride, sertindole, methadone), certai n antihistamines (e.g. terfenadine, astemizole, mizolastine), antimalarials (e.g. chloroquine, halofantrine, lumefantrine), certain antifungals (ketoconazole, except in shampoo) (see also section  4.4). 
 Bradycardic medicinal products  Clinical monitoring of  heart rate, notably at the beginning of treatment, is recommended in patients receiving pasireotide concomitantly with bradycardic medicinal products, such as beta blockers (e.g. metoprolol, carteolol, propranolol, sotalol) , acetylcholinesterase inhibitor s (e.g. rivastigmine , physostigmine ), certain calcium channel blockers (e.g. verapamil, diltiazem, bepridil), certain antiarrhythmics (see also section  4.4). 
 Insulin and antidiabetic medicinal products  Dose adjustments (decrease or increase) of insulin an d antidiabetic medicinal products (e.g. metformin, liraglutide, vildagliptin, nateglinide) may be required when administered concomitantly with pasireotide (see also section  4.4). 
 
