4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Effects of other medicinal products on encorafenib  
 Encorafenib is primarily metaboli sed by CYP3A4.  
 CYP3A4 i nhibitors  Co-administration of moderate (diltiazem)  and strong (posaconazole) CYP3A4 inhibitors with single doses of encorafenib in healthy volunteers  resulted in a 2 and 3- fold increase in  the area under the concentration -time curve ( AUC ), respectively and in 44.6%  and 68.3% increase in maximum encorafenib concentration ( Cmax) respectively.   Model  based predictions indicate that the effect of posaconazole after repeated administrations could be similar for AUC (3 -fold increase) and slightly greater for C max (2.7- fold increase). Model -based predictions for ketoconazole suggest an increase of approx. 5- fold for encorafenib AUC and 3 to 4-fold for encorafenib C max after administration of encorafenib 450 and 300 mg QD, respectively . Therefore, c oncomitant administration of encorafenib with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors should be avoided (due to increased encorafenib exposure and potential increase in toxicity , see section  5.2). Examples of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include, but are not limited to, ritonavir, itraconazole, clarithromycin, telithromycin, posaconazole and grapefruit juice. If concomitant use of a strong CYP3A inhibitor is unavoidable, patients should be carefully monitored for safety. Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors should be co- administered with caution. Examples of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors include, but are not limited to, amiodarone, erythromycin, fluconazole, diltiazem, amprenavir and imatinib. When encorafenib is co -administered with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, patients should be carefully monitored for safety.  
 CYP3A4 i nducers  Co-administration of encorafenib with a strong CYP3A4 inducer was not assessed in a clinical study; however , a reduction in encorafenib exposure is likely and may result in compromised efficacy of encorafenib . Examples of strong CYP3A4 inducers include, but are not limited to carbamazepine, rifampicin, phenytoin and St. John’s Wort. Alternative agents with no to moderate CYP3A induction potential  should be considered.  
 Effects of encorafenib on other medicinal products  
 CYP s ubstrates  Encorafenib is a  strong inducer of CYP3A4. Concomitant use with agents that are substrates of CYP3A4 ( e.g., hormonal contraceptives) may result in loss of efficacy of these agents. If the coadministration of narrow therapeutic index CYP3A4 substrates cannot be avoided, adjust the dose of these substrates in accordance with their approved Sm 
 PC.   Encorafenib is an inhibitor of UGT1A1. Concomitant a gents that are substrates of UGT1A1 ( e.g. raltegravir, atorvastatin, dolutegravir)  may have increased exposure and should be  therefore  administered with caution.  
 Effect of e ncorafenib on binimetinib  While encorafenib is a relatively potent reversible inhibitor of UGT1A1, no differences in binimetinib exposure have been observed clinically when binimetinib was  co-administered with encorafenib.  
 Transporter s ubstrates  In vivo , encorafenib is a n inhibitor of OATP1B1, OATP1B3 and/or BCRP. Coadministration of encorafenib with OATP1B1, OATP1B3 or BCRP substrates (such as rosuvastatin, atorvastatin, methotrexate) can result in increased concentrations (see section 5.2) . In vitro , encorafenib potentially inhibits a number of other transporters. Agents that are substrates of renal transporters  OAT1, OAT3, OCT2 (such as furosemide, penicillin) or agents that are substrates of the h epatic transporters OCT1  (such as,  bosentan)  or substrates of P -gp (e.g. posaconazole) may also have increased exposure.  Therefore , these agents , substrates of transporters should be co- administered with caution.  
 11 