4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Aciclovir  Higher aciclovir plasma concentrations were observed when mycophenolate mofetil was administered with aciclovir in comparison to the administration of aciclovir alone. The changes in MPAG (the phenolic glucuronide of MPA) pharmacokinetics (MPAG increased by 8 %) were minimal and are not considered clinically significant. Because MPAG plasma concentrations are increased in the presence of renal impairment, as are aciclovir concentrations, the potential exists for mycophenolate mofetil and aciclovir, or its prodrugs, e.g. valaciclovir, to compete for tubular secretion and further increases in concentrations of both substances may occur. 
 Antacids and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) Decreased MPA exposure has been observed when antacids, such as magnesium and aluminium hydroxides, and PPIs, including lansoprazole and pantoprazole, were administered with mycophenolate mofetil. When comparing rates of transplant rejection or rates of gr aft loss between mycophenolate mofetil patients taking PPIs versus mycophenolate mofetil patients not taking PPIs, no significant differences were seen. These data support extrapolation of this finding to all antacids because the reduction in exposure when mycophenolate mofetil was co - administered with magnesium and aluminium hydroxides is considerably less than when mycophenolate mofetil was co-administered with PPIs.  
 Medicinal products that interfere with enterohepatic re ci
 rculation  (e.g. chol estyramine , ciclosporin A, antibiotics  7 Caution should be used with medicinal products that interfere with enterohepatic recirculation because of their potential to reduce the efficacy of Myclausen.  
 Cholestyramine Following single dose administration of 1.5 g of mycophenolate mofetil to normal healthy subjects pre-treated with 4  g TID of cholestyramine for 4 days, there was a 40  % reduction in the AUC of MPA (see section  4.4 and section  5.2). Caution should be used during concomitant administration because of the potential to reduce efficacy of Myclausen.  
 Ciclosporin A  Ciclosporin A (Cs 
 A) pharmacokinetics are unaffected by mycophenolate mofetil. In contrast, if concomitant Cs 
 A treatment is stopped, an increase in MPA AUC of around 30 % should be expected.  Cs 
 A interferes with MPA enterohepatic recycling, resulting in reduced MPA exposures by 30 - 50 % in renal transplant patients treated with mycophenolate mofetil  and Cs 
 A compared with patients receiving sirolimus or belatacept and similar doses of mycophenolate mofetil (see also section  4.4). Conversely, changes of MPA exposure should be expected when switching patients from Cs 
 A to one of the immunosuppressants which does not interfere with MPA´s enterohepatic cycle.  
 Antibiotics eliminating β -glucuronidase-producing bacteria in the intestine (e.g. aminoglycoside, cephalosporin, fluoroquinolone, and penicillin classes of antibiotics) may interfere with MPAG/MPA enterohepatic recirculation, thus leading to reduced systemic MPA exposure. Information concerning the following antibiotics is available:  
 Ciprofloxacin or amoxicillin plus clavulanic acid Reductions in pre -dose (trough) MPA concentrations of about 50% have been reported in renal transplant recipients in the days immediately following commencement of oral ciprofloxacin or amoxicillin plus clavulanic acid. This effect tended to diminish with continued antibiotic use and to cease within a few days of antibiotic discontinuation. The change in pre- dose level may not accurately  represent changes in overall MPA exposure. Therefore, a change in the dose of Myclausen  should not normally be necessary in the absence of clinical evidence of graft dysfunction. However, close clinical  monitoring should be performed during the combination and shortly after antibiotic treatment.  
 Norfloxacin and metronidazole In healthy volunteers, no significant interaction was observed when mycophenolate mofetil was concomitantly  administered with norfloxacin or metronidazole separately. However, norfloxacin and metronidazole combined reduced the MPA exposure by approximately 30% following a single dose of mycophenolate mofetil. 
 Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole No effect on the bioavailability of MPA was observed.  
 Medicinal products that affect glucuronidation (e.g. isavuconazole, telmisartan)  Concomitant administration of drugs affecting glucuronidation of MPA may change MPA exposure. Caution is therefore recommended when administering these drugs concomitantly with Myclausen . 
 Isavuconazole An increase of MPA exposure ( AUC 0-∞) by 35% was observed with concomitant administration of  isavuconazole.  
 Telmisartan  Concomitant administration of telmisartan and mycophenolate mofetil  resulted in an approximately 
30 % decrease of MPA concentrations. Telmisartan changes MPA’s elimination by enhancing PPAR  gamma (peroxisome proliferator- activated receptor  gamma) expression, which in turn results in an enhanced uridine diphosphate glucuronyltransferase isoform 1A9 ( UGT1A9) expression and activity. When comparing rates of transplant rejection, rates of graft loss or adverse event profiles between mycophenolate mofetil  patients with and without concomitant telmisartan medication, no clinical consequences of the pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction were seen.  8  Ganciclovir  Based on the results of a single dose administration study of recommended doses of oral mycophenolate and IV ganciclovir and the known effects of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of mycophenolate mofetil  (see section  4.2) and ganciclovir, it is anticipated that co -administration of these agents (which compete for mechanisms of renal tubular secretion) will result in increases in MPAG and ganciclovir concentration. No substantial alteration of MPA pharmacokinetics is anticipated and Myclausen dose adjustment is not required. In patients with renal impairment in wh om Myclausen and ganciclovir or its prodrugs, e.g. valganciclovir, are co -administered, the dose recommendations for ganciclovir should be observed and patients should be monitored carefully. 
 Oral contraceptives  The pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of oral contraceptives were not affected to a clinically relevant degree by coadministration of mycophenolate mofetil (see also section 5.2). 
 Rifampicin  In patients not also taking ciclosporin, concomitant administration of mycophenolate mofetil and rifampicin resulted in a decrease in MPA exposure (AUC0 -12 h) of 18 % to 70 %. It is recommended to monitor MPA exposure levels and to adjust Myclausen doses accordingly to maintain clinical efficacy when rifampicin is administered concomitantly.  
 Sevelamer  Decrease in MPA C max and AUC 0-12h by 30 % and 25 %, respectively, were observed when mycophenolate mofetil was concomitantly administered wi th sevelamer witho ut any clinical consequences (i.e. graft rejection). It is recommended, however, to administer Myclausen at least one hour before or three hours after sevelamer intake to minimise the impact on the absorption of MPA. There are no data on mycophenolate mofetil with phosphate binders other than sevelamer. 
 Tacrolimus  In hepatic transplant patients initiated on mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus, the AUC and Cmax of MPA, the active metabolite of mycophenolate mofetil, were not significantly affected by co -administration with tacrolimus. In contrast, there was an increase of approximately 20 % in tacrolimus AUC when multiple doses of mycophenolate mofetil (1.5 g BID) were administered to hepatic transplant patients taking tacrolimus. However, in renal transplant patients, tacrolimus concentration did not appear to be altered by mycophenolate mofetil (see also section 4.4). 
 Live vaccines  Live vaccines should not be given to patients with an impaired immune response. The antibody response to ot her vaccines may be diminished (see also section  4.4). 
 Paediatric population Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
 Potential interaction  Co-administration of probenecid with mycophenolate mofetil in monkeys raises plasma AUC of MPAG by 3-fold. Thus, other substances known to undergo renal tubular secretion may compete with MPAG, and thereby raise plasma concentrations of MPAG or the other substance undergoing tubular secretion.  
 
