4.5 for a list of CYP2C19 inhibitors, see also section 5.2).  
 Use of medicinal products that induce the activity of CYP2C19 would be expected to result in increased drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and might potentiate the bleeding risk. As a precaution concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers should be discouraged (see section 4. 5). 
 CYP2C8 substrates  Caution is required in patients treated concomitantly with clopidogrel and CYP2C8 substrate medicinal products (see section 4.5).  
 Cross -reactions among thienopyridines  Patients should be evaluated for history of hypersensitivity to thienopyridines (such as clopidogrel, ticlopidine, prasugrel) since cross -reactivity among thienopyridines has been reported (see section 
4.8). Thienopyridines may cause mild to severe allergic reactions such as rash, angioedema, or haematological cross -reactions such as thrombocytopaenia and neutropaenia. Patients who had developed a previous allergic reaction and/or haematological reaction to one thienopyridine may have an increased risk of developing the same or another reaction to another thienopyridine. Monitoring for signs of hypersensitivity in patients with a known allergy to thienopyridines is advised.  
 Renal impairment  Therapeutic ex perience with clopidogrel is limited in patients with renal impairment. Therefore clopidogrel should be used with caution in these patients (see section 4.2).  
 Hepatic impairment  Experience is limited in patients with moderate hepatic disease who may have bleeding diatheses. Clopidogrel should therefore be used with caution in this population (see section 4.2).  
 Excipients  Clopidogrel Viatris  contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose -galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product . 
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Medicinal products associated with bleeding risk : There is an increased risk of bleeding due to the poten tial additive effect. The concomitant administration of medicinal products associated with bleeding risk should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4).  
 Oral anticoagulants:  the concomitant administration of clopidogrel with oral anticoagulants is no t recommended since it may increase the intensity of bleedings (see section 4.4).  Although the administration of clopidogrel 75  mg/day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S -warfarin or International Normalised Ratio (INR) in patients receiving long -term warfarin therapy, coadministration of clopidogrel with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding because of independent effects on hemostasis.  
 Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors:  clopidogrel should be used with caution in patients who receive concomitant  glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (see section 4.4).  
 7 Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA):  ASA did not modify the clopidogrel -mediated inhibition of ADP -induced platelet aggregation, but clopidogrel potentiated the effect of ASA on collagen -induced platelet aggrega tion. However, concomitant administration of 500  mg of ASA twice a day for one day did not significantly increase the prolongation of bleeding time induced by clopidogrel intake. A pharmacodynamic interaction between clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid is  possible, leading to increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use should be undertaken with caution (see section  4.4). However, clopidogrel and ASA have been administered together for up to one year (see section  5.1). 
 Heparin : in a clinical study conducted in healthy subjects, clopidogrel did not necessitate modification of the heparin dose or alter the effect of heparin on coagulation. Co -administration of heparin had no effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation induced by cl opidogrel. A pharmacodynamic interaction between clopidogrel and heparin is possible, leading to increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4).  
 Thrombolytics : the safety of the concomitant admin istratio n of clopidogrel, fibrin or non -fibrin specific thrombolytic agents and heparins was assessed in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The incidence of clinically significant bleeding was similar to that observed when thrombolytic agents and h eparin are co -administered with ASA (see section 4.8)  
 NSAIDs : in a clinical study conducted in healthy volunteers, the concomitant administration of clopidogrel and naproxen increased occult gastrointestinal blood loss. However, due to the lack of interac tion studies with other NSAIDs it is presently unclear whether there is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding with all NSAIDs. Consequently, NSAIDs including Cox -2 inhibitors and clopidogrel should be co -administered with caution (see section 4.4) . 
 SSRIs : since SSRIs affect platelet activation and increase the risk of bleeding, the concomitant administration of SSRIs with clopidogrel should be undertaken with caution.  
 Other concomitant therapy :  
 Inducers of CYP2C19:  Since clopidogrel is metaboli sed to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19, use of medicinal products  that induce the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in increased drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel.  
 Rifampicin strongly induces CYP2C19, resulting in both an increased level of clopidogrel active metabolite and platelet inhibition, which in particular might potentiate the risk of bleeding. As a precaution, concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers should be discouraged (see section 4.4).  
 Inhibitors  of CYP2C19:  Since clopidogrel is metabolised to its active metabolite partly by CY P2C19, use of medicinal products that inhibit the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in reduced drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel. The cli nical relevance of this interaction is uncertain. As a precaution concomitant  use of strong or moderate  CYP2C19  inhibitors  should be discouraged  (see section s 4.4 and  5.2). 
 Medicinal products that are strong or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors include for exam ple omeprazole and esomeprazole, fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, moclobemide, voriconazol e, fluconazol e, ticlopidine, carbamazepine, and efavirenz . 
 Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPI):  Omeprazole 80  mg once daily administered either at the same time as clopidogrel or with 12 hours between the administrations of the two drugs decreased the exposure of the active metabolite by 45% (loading dose) and 40% (maintenance dose). The decrease was associated wi th a 39% (loading dose) and 21% (maintenance dose) reduction of inhibition of platelet aggregation. Esomeprazole is expected to give a similar interaction with clopidogrel.  8  Inconsistent data on the clinical implications of this pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharma codynamic (PD) interaction in terms of major cardiovascular events have been reported from both observational and clinical studies. As a precaution, concomitant use of omeprazole or esomeprazole  should be discouraged (see section 4.4).  
 Less pronounced reductions of metabolite exposure has been observed with pantoprazole or lansoprazole.  The plasma concentrations of the active metabolite was 20% reduced (loading dose) and 14% reduced (maintenance dose) during concomitant treatment with pantopr azole 80  mg once daily. This was associated with a reduction of the mean inhibition of platelet aggregation by 15% and 11%, respectively. These results indicate that clopidogrel can be administered with pantoprazole.  
 There is no evidence that other medici nal products that reduce stomach acid such as H2 blockers  or antacids interfere with antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel.  
 Boosted anti -retroviral therapy (ART): HIV patients treated with boosted anti -retroviral therapies (ART) are at high risk of vascular events.  
 A significantly reduced platelet inhibition has been shown in HIV patients treated with ritonavir -or cobicistat -boosted ART. Although the clinical relevance of these findings is uncertain, there have been spontaneous reports of HIV -infect ed patients treated with ritonavir boosted ART, who have experienced re -occlusive events after de -obstruction or have suffered thrombotic events under a clopidogrel loading treatment schedule. Average platelet inhibition can be decreased with concomitant use of clopidogrel and ritonavir. Therefore, concomitant use of clopidogrel with ART boosted therapies should be discouraged.  
 Other medicinal products : A number of other clinical studies have been conducted with clopidogrel and other concomitant medicinal products to investigate the potential for pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions. No clinically significant pharmacodynamic interactions were o bserved when clopidogrel was co -administered with atenolol, nifedipine, or both atenolol and nifedipine . Furthermore, the pharmacodynamic activity of clopidogrel was not significantly influenced by the co-administration  of phenobarbital or  oestrogen.  
 The pharmacokinetics of digoxin or theophyll ine were not modified by the co -administration of clopidogrel. Antacids did not modify the extent of clopidogrel absorption.  
 Data from the CAPRIE study indicate that phenytoin and tolbutamide which are metabolised by CYP2C9 can be safely co -administered with clopidogrel.  
 CYP2C8 substrate medicinal products: Clopidog rel has been shown to increase repaglinide exposure in healthy volunteers. In vitro  studies have shown the increase in repaglinide exposure is due to inhibition of CYP2C8 by the glucuronide metabolite of clopidogrel. Due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations, concomitant administration of clopidogrel and drugs primarily cleared by CYP2C8 metabolism (e.g., repaglinide, paclitaxel) should be undertaken with caution (see section 
4.4). 
 Apart from the specific medicinal product interaction information described above, interaction studies with clopidogrel and some medicinal products c ommonly administered in patients with atherothrombotic disease have not been performed. However, patients entered into clinical trials with clopidogrel received a variety of concomitant medicinal products including  diuretics, beta blockers, ACEI, calcium a ntagonists, cholesterol lowering agents, coronary vasodilators, antidiabetic agents (including insulin), antiepileptic agents and GPIIb/IIIa antagonists without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions.  
 As with other oral P2Y12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists has the potential to delay and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel presumably because of slowed gastric emptying. The clinical 9 relevance is unknown. Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent in acute coronary  syndrome patients requiring co -administration of morphine or other opioid agonists.  
 Rosuvastatin: Clopidogrel has been shown to increase rosuvastatin exposure in patients by 2 -fold (AUC) and 1.3 -fold (C max) after administration of a 300  mg clopidogrel do se, and by 1.4 -fold (AUC) without effect on C max after repeated administration of a 75  mg clopidogrel dose.  
 
