4.5 Interac tion with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Pemetrexed is mainly eliminated unchanged renally by tubular secretion and to a lesser extent by glomerular filtration. Concomitant admini stration of nephrotoxic medicinal product  (e.g. aminoglycoside, loop diuretics, platinum compounds, cyclosporin) could potentially result in delayed clearance of pemetrexed. This combination should be used with caution. If necessary, creatinine clearance s hould be closely monitored.  
 Concomitant administra tion of substances that are also tubularly secreted (e.g. probenecid, penicillin) could potentially result in delayed clearance of pemetrexed. Caution shou ld be made when these medicinal product s are combi ned with pemetrexed. If necessary, creatinine clear ance should be closely monitored.  
 In patients with normal renal function (creatinine clearance ≥ 80 ml/min), high doses of non-steroidal anti -inflammatory medicinal product  (NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen >  1600 mg/day) and acetylsalicylic acid at higher dose  (≥ 1.3 g daily) may decrease pemetrexed elimination and, consequently, increase the occurrence of  pemetrexed adverse reactions . Therefore, caution should be made when administering higher doses of NSAIDs o r acetylsalicylic acid , concurrently with pemetrexe d to patients with normal function (creatinine clearance 
≥ 80 ml/min).  
 In patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance from 45 to 
79 ml/min), the concomitant administration of pemetrexed with NSAIDs (e.g. ibuprofen) or acetylsa licylic acid at higher dose should be avoided for 2 days before, on the day of, and 2 days following pemetrexed administration (see section 4.4).  
 In the absence of data regarding potential interaction wit h NSAIDs having longer half -lives such as piroxicam  or rofecoxib, the concomitant administration with pemetrexed in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency should be interrupted for at least 5 days prior to, on the day of, and at least 2 days fo llowing pemetrexed administration (see section 4.4) . If concomitant administration of NSAIDs is necessary, patients should be monitored closely for toxicity, especially myelosuppression and gastrointestinal toxicity.  
 Pemetrexed undergoes limited hepatic m etabolism. Results from in vitro studies with human  liver microsomes indicated that pemetrexed would not be predicted to cause clinically significant inhibition of the metabolic clearance of medicinal product  metabolised by CYP3A, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, and CYP1A 2. 
 Interactions common to all cytotoxics  Due to th e increased thrombotic risk in patients with cancer, the use of anticoagulation treatment is frequent. The high intra -individual variability of the coagulation status during diseases and the possibility of  interaction between oral anticoagulants and antica ncer chemotherapy require increased frequency of INR (International Normalised Ratio) monitoring, if it is decided to treat the patient with oral anticoagulants.  
 Concomitant use contraindicated : Yellow fe ver vaccine: risk of fatal generalised vaccinale disease (see section 4.3).   
8 
  Concomitant use not recommended : Live attenuated vaccines (except yellow fever, for which  concomitant use is contraindicated): risk of systemic, possibly fatal, disease. The risk is increased in subjects who are already immunosupp ressed by their underlying disease. Use an inactivated vaccine where it exists (poliomyelitis) (see section 4.4).  
 
