4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Effects of other medicinal products on sildenafil 
 In vitro studies Sildenafil metabolism is principally mediated by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms 3A4 (major route) and 2C9 (minor route). Therefore, inhibitors of these isoenzymes may reduce sildenafil clearance and inducers of these isoenzymes may increase sildenafil clearance. For dose recommendations, see sections 4.2 and 4.3. 
 In vivo studies   Co-administration of oral sildenafil and intravenous epoprostenol has been evaluated (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
 The efficacy and safety of sildenafil co-administered with other treatments for pulmonary arterial hypertension (eg, ambrisentan, iloprost) has not been studied in controlled clinical trials. Therefore, caution is recommended in case of co-administration. 
 The safety and efficacy of sildenafil when co-administered with other PDE5 inhibitors has not been studied in pulmonary arterial hypertension patients (see section 4.4). 
 Population pharmacokinetic analysis of pulmonary arterial hypertension clinical trial data indicated a reduction in sildenafil clearance and/or an increase of oral bioavailability when co-administered with CYP3A4 substrates and the combination of CYP3A4 substrates and beta-blockers. These were the only factors with a statistically significant impact on sildenafil pharmacokinetics in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension. The exposure to sildenafil in patients on CYP3A4 substrates and CYP3A4 substrates plus beta-blockers was 43 % and 66 % higher, respectively, compared to patients not receiving these classes of medicines. Sildenafil exposure was 5-fold higher at a dose of 80 mg three times a day compared to the exposure at a dose of 20 mg three times a day. This concentration range covers the increase in sildenafil exposure observed in specifically designed drug interaction studies with CYP3A4 inhibitors (except with the most potent of the CYP3A4 inhibitors eg, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir). 
 CYP3A4 inducers seemed to have a substantial impact on the pharmacokinetics of sildenafil in pulmonary arterial hypertension patients, which was confirmed in the in-vivo interaction study with CYP3A4 inducer bosentan. 
 Co-administration of bosentan (a moderate inducer of CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and possibly of CYP2C19) 
125 mg twice daily with sildenafil 80 mg three times a day (at steady state) concomitantly administered during 6 days in healthy volunteers resulted in a 63 % decrease of sildenafil AUC. A population pharmacokinetic analysis of sildenafil data from adult PAH patients in clinical trials including a 12 week study to assess the efficacy and safety of oral sildenafil 20 mg three times a day when added to a stable dose of bosentan (62.5 mg – 125 mg twice a day) indicated a decrease in sildenafil exposure with bosentan co-administration, similar to that observed in healthy volunteers (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
  Efficacy of sildenafil should be closely monitored in patients using concomitant potent CYP3A4 inducers, such as carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, St John’s wort and rifampicine. 
 Co-administration of the HIV protease inhibitor ritonavir, which is a highly potent P450 inhibitor, at steady state (500 mg twice daily) with sildenafil (100 mg single dose) resulted in a 300 % (4-fold) increase in sildenafil C max and a 1,000 % (11-fold) increase in sildenafil plasma AUC. At 24 hours, the plasma levels of sildenafil were still approximately 200 ng/ml, compared to approximately 5 ng/ml when sildenafil was administered alone. This is consistent with ritonavir’s marked effects on a broad range of P450 substrates. Based on these pharmacokinetic results co-administration of sildenafil with ritonavir is contraindicated in pulmonary arterial hypertension patients (see section 4.3). 
  
7 Co-administration of the HIV protease inhibitor saquinavir, a CYP3A4 inhibitor, at steady state (1200 mg three times a day) with sildenafil (100 mg single dose) resulted in a 140 % increase in sildenafil C max and a 210 % increase in sildenafil AUC. Sildenafil had no effect on saquinavir pharmacokinetics. For dose recommendations, see section 4.2. 
 When a single 100 mg dose of sildenafil was administered with erythromycin, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, at steady state (500 mg twice daily for 5 days), there was a 182 % increase in sildenafil systemic exposure (AUC). For dose recommendations, see section 4.2. In healthy male volunteers, there was no evidence of an effect of azithromycin (500 mg daily for 3 days) on the AUC, C max, Tmax, elimination rate constant, or subsequent half-life of sildenafil or its principal circulating metabolite. No dose adjustment is required. Cimetidine (800 mg), a cytochrome P450 inhibitor and a non-specific CYP3A4 inhibitor, caused a 56 % increase in plasma sildenafil concentrations when co-administered with sildenafil (50 mg) to healthy volunteers. No dose adjustment is required. 
 The most potent of the CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole and itraconazole would be expected to have effects similar to ritonavir (see section 4.3). CYP3A4 inhibitors like clarithromycin, telithromycin and nefazodone are expected to have an effect in between that of ritonavir and CYP3A4 inhibitors like saquinavir or erythromycin, a seven-fold increase in exposure is assumed. Therefore dose adjustments are recommended when using CYP3A4 inhibitors (see section 4.2). 
 The population pharmacokinetic analysis in pulmonary arterial hypertension patients suggested that co-administration of beta-blockers in combination with CYP3A4 substrates might result in an additional increase in sildenafil exposure compared with administration of CYP3A4 substrates alone. 
 Grapefruit juice is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 gut wall metabolism and may give rise to modest increases in plasma levels of sildenafil. No dose adjustment is required but the concomitant use of sildenafil and grapefruit juice is not recommended. 
 Single doses of antacid (magnesium hydroxide/aluminium hydroxide) did not affect the bioavailability of sildenafil. 
 Co-administration of oral contraceptives (ethinyloestradiol 30 µg and levonorgestrel 150 µg) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of sildenafil. 
 Nicorandil is a hybrid of potassium channel activator and nitrate. Due to the nitrate component it has the potential to have serious interaction with sildenafil (see section 4.3). 
 Effects of sildenafil on other medicinal products 
 In vitro studies Sildenafil is a weak inhibitor of the cytochrome P450 isoforms 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4 (IC50 > 150 µM).   
 There are no data on the interaction of sildenafil and non-specific phosphodiesterase inhibitors such as theophylline or dipyridamole. 
 In vivo studies No significant interactions were shown when sildenafil (50 mg) was co-administered with tolbutamide (250 mg) or warfarin (40 mg), both of which are metabolised by CYP2C9. 
 Sildenafil had no significant effect on atorvastatin exposure (AUC increased 11 %), suggesting that sildenafil does not have a clinically relevant effect on CYP3A4. 
 No interactions were observed between sildenafil (100 mg single dose) and acenocoumarol. 
 Sildenafil (50 mg) did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by acetyl salicylic acid (150 mg).  
8  Sildenafil (50 mg) did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of alcohol in healthy volunteers with mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 80 mg/dl. 
 In a study of healthy volunteers sildenafil at steady state (80 mg three times a day) resulted in a 50 % increase in bosentan AUC (125 mg twice daily). A population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from a study of adult PAH patients on background bosentan therapy (62.5 mg - 125 mg twice a day) indicated an increase (20% (95% CI: 9.8 - 30.8)) of bosentan AUC with co-administration of steady-state sildenafil (20 mg three times a day) of a smaller magnitude than seen in healthy volunteers when co-administered with 80 mg sildenafil three times a day (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
 In a specific interaction study, where sildenafil (100 mg) was co-administered with amlodipine in hypertensive patients, there was an additional reduction on supine systolic blood pressure of 8 mm 
 Hg. The corresponding additional reduction in supine diastolic blood pressure was 7 mm 
 Hg. These additional blood pressure reductions were of a similar magnitude to those seen when sildenafil was administered alone to healthy volunteers. 
 In three specific drug-drug interaction studies, the alpha-blocker doxazosin (4 mg and 8 mg) and sildenafil (25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg) were administered simultaneously to patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) stabilized on doxazosin therapy. In these study populations, mean additional reductions of supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure of 7/7 mm 
 Hg, 9/5 mm 
 Hg, and 
8/4 mm 
 Hg, respectively, and mean additional reductions of standing blood pressure of 6/6 mm 
 Hg, 
11/4 mm 
 Hg, and 4/5 mm 
 Hg, respectively were observed. When sildenafil and doxazosin were administered simultaneously to patients stabilized on doxazosin therapy, there were infrequent reports of patients who experienced symptomatic postural hypotension. These reports included dizziness and lightheadedness, but not syncope. Concomitant administration of sildenafil to patients taking alpha-blocker therapy may lead to symptomatic hypotension in susceptible individuals (see section 
4.4). 
 Sildenafil (100 mg single dose) did not affect the steady state pharmacokinetics of the HIV protease inhibitor saquinavir, which is a CYP3A4 substrate/inhibitor. 
 Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/c 
 GMP pathway (see section 5.1), sildenafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its co-administration with nitric oxide donors or nitrates in any form is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
 Riociguat: Preclinical studies showed additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when PDE5 inhibitors were combined with riociguat. In clinical studies, riociguat has been shown to augment the hypotensive effects of PDE5 inhibitors. There was no evidence of favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied. Concomitant use of riociguat with PDE5 inhibitors, including sildenafil, is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
 Sildenafil had no clinically significant impact on the plasma levels of oral contraceptives (ethinyloestradiol 30 µg and levonorgestrel 150 µg). 
 Addition of a single dose of sildenafil to sacubitril/valsartan at steady state in patients with hypertension was associated with a significantly greater blood pressure reduction compared to administration of sacubitril/valsartan alone. Therefore, caution should be exercised when sildenafil is initiated in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan. 
 Paediatric population Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
  
9 