4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Sirolimus is extensively m etabolised by the CYP3A4 isozyme in the intestinal wall and liver. Sirolimus is also a substrate for the multidrug efflux pump, P -glycoprot ein (P -gp) located in the small intestine. Therefore, absorption and the subsequent elimination of sirolimus may be i nfluenced by substances that affect these proteins. Inhibitors of CYP 3A4 (such as ketoconazole, voriconaz ole, itraconazole, telithromycin, or clarithromycin) decrease the metabolism of sirolimus and increase sirolimus levels. Inducers of CYP3A4 (such as ri fampin or rifabutin) increase the metabolism of sirolimus and decreas e sirolimus levels. Co -administratio n of sirolimus with strong inhibit ors of CYP3A4 or inducers of CYP3A4 is not recommended (see section 4.4 ).Rifampicin (CYP3A4 inducer)Administratio n of multiple doses of rifampicin decreased sirolimus whole blood con centrations following a single 10 mgdoseof Rapamune oral solution. R ifampicin increased the clearance ofsirolimus by approximately 5.5 -fold and decreased AUC and C maxby approximately 82% and 71%, respectively. Co -administration of sirolimus and rifampi cin is not recommended (see section 4.4).Ketoconazole (CYP3A4 inhibi tor)Multiple -dose ketoconazole administration significantly affected the rate and extent of absorption and sirolimu s exposure from Rapamune oral solution as reflected by increases in s irolimus C max, tmax, and AUC of 4.4 -fold,1.4-fold, and 10.9 -fold, res pectively. Co -administration of sirolimus and ketoconazole is not recommended (see section 4.4 ).9Voriconazole (CYP3A 4 inhibitor)Co-administration of sirolimus (2 mg single dose) with multiple -dose administration of oralvoriconazo le (400 mg e very 12 hours for 1 day, then 100 mg every 12 hours for 8 days) in healthy subjects has been reported to increase sirolimus C maxand AUC by an average of 7 -fold and 11 -fold respectively. Co -administration of sirolimus and voriconazol e is not recommended (see section 4.4).Diltiazem (CYP3A4 inhibitor)The simulta neous oral administration of 10 mg of Rapamune oral solution and 120 mg of diltiazem significantly affected the bioavailability of sirolim us. Sirolimus C max, tmax, and AUC we reincreased 
1.4-fold, 1.3 -fold, a nd 1.6 -fold, respectively. Sirolimus did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either diltiazem or its metabolites desac etyldiltiazem and desmethyldiltiazem. If diltiazem is administered, sirolimus blood levels should be moni toredand a dose adjustment may be necessary.Verapamil (CYP3A4 inhibitor)Multiple -dose administration of verapamil and sirolimus oral solution sign ificantly affected the rate and extent of absorption of both medicina l products. Whole blood sirolimus C max, tmax, and AUC were increased 2 .3-fold, 1.1 -fold, and 2.2 -fold, respectively. Plasma S -(-) verapamil C maxand AUC were both increased 1.5 -fold, and tmaxwas decreased 24%. Sirolimus levels should be monitored, and appropriate dose reductions of both med icinal products should be consider ed.Erythromycin (CYP3A4 inhibitor)Multiple -dose administration of erythromycin and sirolimus oral solution signif icantly increased the rate and extent of absorption of both medicinal products. Whole blood sirolimus C max,tmax, and AUC were increased 4. 4-fold, 1.4 -fold, and 4.2 -fold, respectively. The C max, tmax, and AUC of plasma erythromycin base were increased 1.6 -fold, 1.3 -fold, and 1.7 -fold, respectively. Sirolimus levels should b e monitored and appropriate dose red uctions of both medicinal products should be considered.Ciclosporin (CYP3A4 substrate)The rate and extent of sirolimus absorption was significantly increased by ciclosporin A (Cs 
 A). Sirolimus administered concomitant ly(5mg), and at 2 hours (5mg) and 4hours (10 mg) after Cs 
 A (300 mg), resulted in increased sirolimus AUC by approximately 183%, 141% and 80%, respectively. The effect of Cs 
 A was also reflected by increases in sirolimus C maxand t max. When given 2 hoursbefore Cs 
 A administration, sirolimu s Cmaxand AUC were not affected. Single -dose sirolimus did not affect the pharmacokinetics of ciclosporin (microemulsion) in healthy volunteers when a dministered simultaneously or 4 hours apart. It is recommended that R apamune be administered 4 hours afte r ciclosporin (microemulsion).Cannabidiol (P-gpinhibitor )There have been reports ofincreased blood levels ofsirolimus during concomitant usewith cannabidiol. Co-administration ofcannabidiol with another orally administered m 
 TORinhibitor inahealthy volunteer study ledtoanincrease inexposure tothem 
 TORinhibitor ofapproximately
2.5-foldforboth Cmaxand 
 AUC, duetoinhibition ofintestinal P-gpefflux bycannabidiol. Caution should be used when cannabidi ol and Rapamune are c o-administered ,closel y monitoring for side effects . Monito r sirolim usblood levels and adjust the dose as nee ded (see sec tions 4.2 and 4.4). Oral contraceptives 
 No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interaction was observed bet ween Rapamune oral solu tion and 0. 3mg norgestrel/0.03 mg ethinyl estradiol. Although the results of a single -dose interaction study withan or alcontraceptive suggest the lack of a pharmacokinetic interaction, the results cannot exclude 10the possibility of changes in the pharmacokine tics t hat might affect the efficacy of the oral contraceptive during long -term treatment with Rapamune.Other poss ible interactions 
 Inhibi tors of CYP3A4 may decrease the metabolism of sirolimus and increase sirolimus blood lev els. Such inhibitors include certa inantifungal s(e.g. clotrimazole, fluconazole , itraconazole, voriconazole ),certain antibiotics (e.g. trolea ndomycin, telithromycin, clarithromycin ),certain protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, indinavir, boceprevir, tel aprevir), nicardipine, bromo cripti ne, cimetidine, danazol and letermovir .Inducers of CYP3A4 may increase the metabolism of sirolimus and dec reasesirolimus bloo dlevels (e.g. S t. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum ),anticonvulsants: carbamazepine, phenob arbital, phenytoin).Although sir olimu s inhibits human liver microsomal cytochrome P 450 CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4/5 in vitro , the ac tive substance is no texpected to in hibit the activity of these isozymes invivo since the sirolimus concentratio ns necessary to produce inhibition are much higher than those observed in patients receiving therapeutic doses of Rapamune. Inhibitors of 
 P-gp may decrease the efflux of sirolimus from intestinal cells and increase sirolimus levels.Grapefruit juice affec ts CYP3A4 -mediated metabolism, and shou ld therefore be avoided.Pharmacokinetic interactions may be observed with gastrointestinal pro kinetic agents, such as cisaprideand metocl opramide.No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between sirolimus and any of the follo wing substances: acyclovir, atorvastatin, digoxin, glibenclamide, methylprednisolone, nifedipine , predni solone, and trimetho prim/sulfamethox azole.Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed i n adults.
