4.5 Interaction with other me dicinal products and other forms of  interaction  
 The information in this section is based on binding affinity between sugammadex and other medicinal products, non -clinical experiments, clinical studies and sim ulations using a model taking into account the pharmacodynamic effect of neuromuscular blocking agents and the pharmacokinetic interaction between neuromuscular blocking agents and sugammadex. Based on these data, no clinically significant pharmacodynamic interaction with other medicinal products is ex pected, with exception of the following:  For toremifene and fusidic acid displacement interactions could not be excluded (no clinically relevant 7  capturing interactions are expected).  For hormonal contraceptive s a clinically relevant capturing interaction c ould not be excluded (no displacement interactions are expected).  
 Interactions potentially affecting the efficacy of sugammadex (displacement interactions):  
 Due to the administration of certain medicinal pro ducts after sugammadex, theoretically rocuroniu m or vecuronium could be displaced from sugammadex. As a result recurrence of neuromuscular blockade might be observed. In this situation the patient must be ventilated. Administration of the medicinal product  which caused displacement should be stopped in  case of an infusion. In situations when  potential  displacement  interactions  can be anticipated,  patients  should  be carefully  monitored  for signs of recurrence of neuromuscular blockade (approximately up to 15 minutes) after parenteral administration of an other medicinal product occurring within a period of 7.5  hours after sugammadex administration.  
 Toremifene:  For toremifene, which has a relatively high binding affinity for sugammadex and for which relati vely high plasma concentrations might be present, s ome displacement of vecuronium or rocuronium from the complex with sugammadex could occur. Clinicians should be aware that the recovery of the T 4/T1 ratio to 0.9 could therefore be delayed in patients who have  received toremifene on the same day of the operation.  
 Intravenous administration of fusidic acid:  The use of fusidic acid in the pre -operative phase may give some delay in the recovery of the T 4/T1 ratio to 0.9. No recurrence of neuromuscular blockad e is expected in the post -operative phase, since th e infusion rate of fusidic acid is over a period of several hours and the blood levels are cumulative over 
2-3 days. For re -administration of sugammadex see section 4.2.  
 Interactions potentially affecti ng the efficacy of other medicinal products (capturin g interactions):   
 Due to the administration of sugammadex, certain medicinal products could become less effective due to a lowering of the (free) plasma concentrations. If such a situation is observed, the clinician is advised to consider the re -administr ation of the medicinal product, the administration of a therapeutically equivalent medicinal product (preferably from a different chemical class) and/or non - pharmacological interventions as appropriate . 
 Hormonal contraceptives:  The interaction between 4  mg/kg sugammadex and a progestogen was predicted to lead to a decrease in progestogen exposure (34% of AUC) similar to the decrease seen when a daily dose of an oral contraceptive is taken 12  hours to o late, which might lead to a reduction in effectiveness . For oestrogens, the effect is expected to be lower. Therefore , the administration of a bolus dose of sugammadex is considered to be equivalent to one missed daily dose of oral contraceptive steroids  (either combined or progestogen only). If sugammadex is  administered at the same day as an oral contraceptive is taken reference is made to missed dose advice in the package leaflet of the oral contraceptive. In the case of non-oral hormonal contraceptiv es, the patient must use an additional non hormonal contr aceptive method for the next 7  days and refer to the advice in the package leaflet of the medicinal product.  
 Interactions due to the lasting effect of rocuronium or vecuronium:  
 When medicinal prod ucts which potentiate neuromuscular blockade are used in t he post -operative period special attention should be paid to the possibility of recurrence of neuromuscular blockade. Please refer to the package leaflet of rocuronium or vecuronium for a list of t he specific medicinal products which potentiate neuromuscul ar blockade. In case recurrence of neuromuscular blockade is observed, the patient may require mechanical ventilation and re -administration of sugammadex (see section 4.2).  
 Interference with labo ratory tests:  
 In general sugammadex does not interfere with  laboratory tests, with the possible exception of the 8  serum progesterone assay. Interference with this test is observed at sugammadex plasma concentrations of 100  microgram/m 
 L (peak plasma level following 8  mg/kg bolus injection).  
 In a study in volunteers  doses of 4  mg/kg and 16  mg/kg of sugammadex resulted in maximum mean prolongations of a 
 PTT by 17 and 22% respectively and of PT(INR) by 11 and 22% respectively.  These limited mean a 
 PTT and PT (INR ) prolongations were of short duration (≤  30 minutes).  In in vitro experiments a pharmacodynamic interaction (a 
 PTT and PT prolongation) was noted with vitamin K antagonists, unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparinoids, rivaroxaban and dabigatran (see section 4.4).  
 Paediatric population  
 No formal interaction studies have been performed. The above mentioned interactions for adults and the warnings in section 4.4 should also be taken into account for the paediatric population.  
 
