4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effect of other medicinal products on duvelisib pharmacokinetics   
 Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers  Co-administration of 600 mg once daily rifampin, a strong CYP3A inducer, for 7 days with a single oral 25 m g duvelisib dose in healthy adults (N = 13) decreased duvelisib C max by 66% and AUC by 
82%.  Co-administration with a strong CYP3A inducer decreases duvelisib area under the curve (AUC) (see section 5.2 ), which may reduce duvelisib efficacy. Co-administration of duvelisib with strong CYP3A4 inducers  (e.g., apalutamide, carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane , phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort ) should be avoided .  
 Co-administration of 200 mg twice daily etravirine, a moderate CYP3A inducer, for 10 days with a single oral 25 mg duvelisib dose in healthy adults (N = 20) decreased duvelisib C max by 16% and AUC by 35%. Co-administration of duvelisib with moderate CY P3A inducers decreases AUC of duvelisib to less than 1. 5-fold and dose reduction is not recommended . Examples  of moderate CYP3A4 inducers are bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, phenobarbital, primidone.    If a moderate CYP3A4 inducer must be  
8 used, the patient should be closely monitored for potential lack of efficacy. Examples:  bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, phenobarbital, primidone .  
 Strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors  Co-administration of a strong CYP 3A inhibitor ketoconazole (at 200 mg twice daily ( BID) for 5 days), with a single oral 10 mg dose of duvelisib in healthy adults (n= 16) increased duvelisib C max by 1.7-fold and AUC by 4 -fold. Due to time -dependent CYP3A4 auto -inhibition, duvelisib susceptibility to moderate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is decreased under steady -state conditions.  Based on physiologically -based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modelling and simulation , the increase in ex posure to duvelisib is estimated to be ~1.6 -fold at steady state in cancer patients when concomitantly used with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole and itraconazole .  
 Duvelisib  dose should be reduced to 15 mg twice daily when co-administered wi th a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (see section 4.2 ) (e.g., ketoconazole, indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquin avir, clarithromycin, telithromycin, itraconazole, nefazodon, cobicistat, voriconazole and  posaconazole , and grapefruit juice ).  
 PBPK modelling and simulation estimated no clinically significant effect on duvelisib exposures from concomitantly used moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors.  Dose reduction of duvelisib is not necessary when co-administered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (see section 4.2) (e.g., aprepitant,  ciprofloxacin,  conivaptan, crizotinib, cyclosporine, diltiazem, dronedarone, erythromycin, fluconazole, fluvoxamine, imatinib, tofisopam, verapami l)  
 Effect of duvelisib on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products  
 CYP3A4 substrates  Co-administration of multiple doses o f duvelisib 25 mg BID for 5 days with single oral 2 mg midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, in healthy adults (N = 14), increased in the midazolam AUC by 4.3 -fold and C max by 2.2-fold. PBPK simula tions in cancer patients under steady state conditions have shown that the C max and AUC of midazolam would increase by  approximately  2.5-fold and ≥5- fold respectively.  Co -administration of midazolam with duvelisib should be avoided.  
 Duvelisib and its major metabolite, IPI -656, are strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Dose reduction of CYP3A4 substrate should be considered  when co-administered with duvelisib ,especially for medicinal products with narrow therapeutic index . Patients should be monitored for signs of toxicities of the co -administered sensitive CYP3A substrate.  Examples of sensitive substrates inclu de: alfentanil, avanafil, buspirone, conivaptan, darifenacin, darunavir, ebastine, everolimus, ibrutinib, lomitapide, lovastatin, midazolam, naloxegol, nisoldipine, saquinavir, simvastatin, sirolimus, tacrolimus, tipranavir, triazolam, vardenafil , budesonide, dasatinib, dronedarone, eletriptan, eplerenone, felodipine, indinavir, lurasidone, maraviroc, quetiapine, sildenaf il, ticagrelor, tolvaptan .  Examples of moderately sensitive substrsates include:  alprazolam, aprepitant, atorvastatin, colchicine, eliglustat, pimozide, rilpivirine, rivaroxaban, tadalafil . This list is not exhaustive and is intended to serve as guidance only. The Sm 
 PC for the other product should be consulted for recommendations regarding co -administration with CYP3A4 inhibitors  (see section 4.4).  
 Hormonal contraceptives  It is unknown whether duvelisib reduces the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives . Therefore, women using hormonal contraceptives should be advised to add a barrier method as a second form of contraception (see section 