4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Due to its α
1-adrenergic receptor antagonism,  aripiprazole has the potential to enhance the effect of certain antihypertensive medicinal products .  8  Given the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should be used when aripiprazole is administered  in combination with alcohol or other CNS medicina l products with overlapping adverse reactions such as sedation (see section  4.8). 
 If aripiprazole is administered concomitantly with medicinal products known to cause QT prolongation or electrolyte imbalance, caution should be use d. 
 Potential for other medicinal products to affect aripiprazole  
 A gastric acid blocker, the H 2 antagonist famotidine, reduces aripiprazole rate of absorption but this effect is deemed not clinically relevant.  Aripiprazole is metabolised by mult iple pathways  involving the CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 enzymes but not CYP1A enzymes. Thus, no dosage adjustment is required for smokers.  
 Quinidine and other CYP2D6 inhibitors  In a clinical trial in healthy subjects, a strong  inhibitor of CYP2D6 (quinidine) increased aripiprazole AUC by 107 %, while Cmax was unchanged. The AUC and Cmax of dehydro- aripiprazole, the active metabolite, decreased by 32  % and 47 %, respectively . Aripiprazole dose should be reduced to approximately one -half of its prescribed dose when concom itant administration of aripiprazole with quinidine occurs. Other strong inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as fluoxetine and paroxetine, may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose reductions should therefore be applied.  
 Ketoconazole and other CYP3A4 inhibitors  In a clinical trial in healthy subjects, a strong  inhibitor of CYP3A4 (ketoconazole) increased aripiprazole AUC and C max by 63 % and 37 %, respectively. The AUC and C max of dehydro- aripiprazole increased by 77 % and 43  %, respectively. In CYP2D6 poor metabolisers, concomitant use of potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 may result in higher plasma concentrations of aripiprazole compared to that in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers.When considering concomitant administration of ketoconazole or other strong  CYP3A4 inhibitors with aripiprazole , potential benefits should outweigh the potential risks to the patient. When concomitant administration of ketoconozole with aripiprazole  occurs, aripiprazole  dose should be reduced to approximately  one-half of its prescribed dose. Other strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as itraconazole and HIV protease inhibitors, may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose reductions should therefore be applied  (see section  4.2).Upon discontinuation of the CYP2D6 or CYP 3A4 inhibitor, the dosage of aripiprazole  should be increased to the level prior to the initiation of the concomitant therapy.When weak inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem) or CYP2D6 (e.g. escitalopram) are used co ncomitantly with aripiprazole, modest increases in plasma aripiprazole concentrations may  be expected.  
 Carbamazepine and other CYP3A4 inducers  Following concomitant administration of carbamazepine, a strong  inducer of CYP3A4, and oral aripiprazole to patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder,  the geometric means of Cmax and AUC for aripiprazole were 68 % and 73 % lower, respectively, compared to when aripiprazole (30 mg) was administered alone . Similarly, for dehydro -aripiprazole the geom etric means of C max and AUC after carbamazepine co -administration were 69  % and 71 % lower, respectively, than those following treatment with aripiprazole alone. Aripiprazole  dose should be doubled when concomitant administration of aripiprazole  occurs wit h carbamazepine. Concomitant administration of aripiprazole and other  strong inducers  of CYP3A4 (such as rifampicin, rifabutin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, efavirenz, nevirapine and St. John's Wort) may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose increases should therefore be applied. Upon discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers, the dosage of aripiprazole  should be reduced to the recommended dose.  
 Valproate and lithium  When either valproate or lithium was administered concomitantly with  aripiprazole, there was no clinically significant change in aripiprazole concentrations  and therefore no dose adjustment is necessary when either valproate or lithium is administered with aripiprazole . 
  9 Potential for aripiprazole  to affect other medicinal  products  
 In clinical studies, 10  mg/day to 30 mg/day doses of aripiprazole had no significant effect on the metabolism of substrates of CYP2D6 (dextromethorphan/3- methoxymorphinan ratio), CYP 2C9 (warfarin), CYP 2C19 (omeprazole), and CYP 3A4 (dextromethorphan). Additionally, aripiprazole and dehydro- aripiprazole did not show potential for altering CYP1A2 -mediated meta bolism in  vitro . Thus, aripiprazole is unlikely to cause clinically important medicinal product interactions mediated by the se enzymes.  
 When aripiprazole was administered concomitantly with either valproate, lithium or lamotrigine, there was no clinically important change in valproate, lithium or lamotrigine concentrations.  
 Serotonin syndrome  Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported in patients taking aripiprazole, and possible signs and symptoms for this condition can occur especially in cases of concomitant use with other serotonergic medicinal products, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor/selective serotonin noradrenaline  reuptake inhibitor  (SSRI/SNRI ), or with medicinal products that are known to increase aripiprazole concentrations (see section  4.8). 
 
