4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Pirtobrutinib  is primarily metabolised by CYP3A4, UGT1A8, and UGT1A9 . 
 Effects of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of pirtobrutinib  
 CYP3A i nhibitors  In a clinical study , itraconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the AUC of pirtobrutinib by 
48 % and did not change C max of pirtobrutinib. This increase in pirtobrutinib exposure is not clinically meaningful. Therefore, no dose adjustment of Jaypirca is necessary with CYP3A inhibitors .  
 CYP3A i nducers  In a clinical study , rifampin, a strong CYP3A inducer, decreased the AUC and C max of pirtobrutinib by 
71 % and 42 %, respectively.  Though this decrease in pirtobrutinib exposure is not expected to be clinically meaningful, if possible avoid strong CYP3A inducers (e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin).  
 Coadministration with medicinal products that are proton pump inhibitors  No clinically significant differences in pirtobrutinib pharmacokinetics were observed when administered concomitantly with omeprazole, a proton pump inhibitor.  
 Effects of pirtobrutinib on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products (increase  in plasma concentration)  
 CYP2C8 substrates  Pirtobrutinib  is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2C8. Pirtobrutinib increased the AUC and  Cmax of repaglinide (a substrate of CYP2C8) by 130 % and 98  %, respectively. Therefore, since pirtobrutinib can increase the plasma concentrations of CYP2C8 substrates, caution is advised when co-administering  with CYP2C8 substrates  (e.g. repaglinide, dasabuvir, selexipag, rosiglitazone , pioglitazone, and montelukast ).  
 BCRP substrates  Pirtobrutinib is a moderate inhibitor of BCRP. Pirtobrutinib increased the AUC and C max of rosuvastatin (a BCRP substrate) by 140  % and 146 %, respectively. Therefore, since pirtobrutinib can increase the plasma concentrations of BCRP substrates, caution i s advised when co -administering BCRP substrates (e.g. rosuvastatin).  If co -administration with narrow therapeutic index BCRP substrates (e.g. high dose methotrexate, mitoxantrone) cannot be avoided, close clinical monitoring should be considered.  
 P-gp substrates  Pirtobrutinib is a weak  inhibitor of P -gp. Pirtobrutinib increased the AUC and C max of digoxin (a P -gp substrate) by 35 % and 55 %, respectively. Therefore, pirtobrutinib can increase the plasma concentrations of P -gp substrates . If co -administration with narrow therapeutic index P -gp substrates 6 (e.g dabigatran etexilate  and digoxin) cannot be avoided, close clinical monitoring should be considered.  
 CYP2C19 substrates  Pirtobrutinib is a weak  inhibitor of CYP2C19. Pirtobrutinib increased the AUC and C max of omeprazole (a CYP2C19 substrate) by 56 % and 49 %, respectively. Therefore, pirtobrutinib can increase the plasma concentrations of CYP2C19 substrates . If co -administration with narrow therapeutic index CYP2C19 substrates (e.g phenobarbital and mephenytoin) cannot be avoided, close clinical monitoring should be consider ed. 
 CYP3A s ubstrates   Pirtobrutinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. Pirtobrutinib increased the AUC and C max of orally administered midazolam (sensitive CYP3A substrate) by 70 % and 58 %, respectively. Pirtobrutinib did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the exposure of intravenously administered midazolam. Therefore, pirtobrutinib can increase the plasma concentrations of CYP3A substrates. If  co-administration  with narrow therapeutic index CYP3A substrates ( e.g alfentanil, midazolam, tacrolimus) cannot be avoided, close clinical monitoring should be considered.  
 
