4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Effect of other medicinal products on selexipag 
 Selexipag is hydrolysed to its active metabolite by carboxylesterases (see section 5.2). Selexipag and its active metabolite both undergo oxidative metabolism mainly by CYP2C8 and to a smaller extent by CYP3A4. The glucuronidation of the acti ve metabolite is catalysed by UGT1A3 and UGT2B7. Selexipag and its active metabolite are substrates of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Selexipag is a weak substrate of the P -gp efflux pump. The active metabolite is a weak substrate of the breast cancer resistance pro tein (BCRP) .The pharmacokinetics of selexipag and its active metabolite are not affected by warfarin.Inhibitors of CYP2C8In the presence of 600 mg gemfibrozil, twice a day, a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8, exposure to selexipag increased approximately 2 -fold, whereas exposure to the active metabolite, the major contributor to efficacy, increased approximately 11 -fold. Concomitant administration of Uptravi with strong inhibitors of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) is contraindicated (see section 4.3).7Concomita nt administration of Uptravi with clopidogrel (loading dose of 300 mg or maintenance dose of 75 mg once a day), a moderate inhibitor of CYP2C8, had no relevant effect on the exposure to selexipag butincreased the exposure to the active metabolite approximately 2.2 and 2.7 -fold following loading dose and maintenance dose, respectively. The total daily dose of Uptravi should be decreased by reducing each dose tohalf when co -administered with moderate CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., clopidogrel, deferasirox, teriflunomide). Alternatively, a once daily dosing frequency to achieve half of the daily dose of Uptra vi may be continued in patients already well controlled on a once daily dosing regimen or may be appli ed in patients for whom the appropriate dose strength(s) supporting twice daily dosing with half the dose is not available .When co -administration of a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor is stopped increase the total daily dose of Uptravi, as applicable. The maximu m dose of 1 600 micrograms twice daily should not be exceeded (see section 4.2).Inducers of CYP2C8In the presence of 600 mg rifampicin, once a day, an inducer of CYP2C8 (and UGT enzymes), the exposure to selexipag did not change, whereas exposure to the active metabolite was reduced by half. Dose adjustment of selexipag may be required with concomitant administration of inducers of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin).Inhibitors of UGT1A3 and UGT2B7The effect of strong inhibitors of UGT 1A3 and UGT2B7 (valproic acid, probenecid, and fluconazole) on the exposure to selexipag and its active metabolite has not been studied. Caution is required when administering these medicinal products concomitantly with Uptravi. A potential pharmacokineticinteraction with strong inhibitors of UGT1A3 and UGT2B7 cannot be excluded.Inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4In the presence of 400 mg/100 mg lopinavir/ritonavir twice daily, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, exposure to selexipag increased approximately 2 -fold, whereas the exposure to the active metabolite of selexipag did not change. Given the 37 -fold higher potency of the active metabolite, this effect is not clinically relevant. Since a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 did not affect the pharmacokinetics of th e active metabolite, indicating that the CYP3A4 pathway is not important in the elimination of the active metabolite, no effect of inducers of CYP3A4 on the pharmacokinetics of the active metabolite is expected.PAH -specific therapies 
 In the phase 3 place bo-controlled trial in patients with PAH, the use of selexipag in combination with both an ERA and a PDE -5 inhibitor resulted in a 30% lower exposure to the active metabolite.Transporter inhibitors ( lopinavir/ritonavir )In the presence of 400 mg/100 mg lopinavir/ritonavir twice daily, a strong OATP (OATP1B1 and OATP1B3) and P -gp inhibitor, exposure to selexipag increased approximately 2 -fold, whereas the exposure to the active metabolite of selexipag did not change. Given that the majority of the pharmac ological effect is driven by the active metabolite, this effect is not clinically relevant.Effect of selexipag on other medicinal products 
 Selexipag and its active metabolite do not inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 enzymes and transport proteins at cli nically relevant concentrations.Anticoagulants or inhibitors of platelet aggregation 
 Selexipag is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation in vitro . In the phase 3 placebo -controlled study in patients with PAH, no increased risk of bleeding was detected with selexipag compared to placebo, including when selexipag was administered with anticoagulants (such as heparin, coumarin -type anticoagulants) or inhibitors of platelet aggregation. In a study in healthy subjects, selexipag (400 micrograms twice daily) did not alter the exposure to S -warfarin (CYP2C9 substrate) or R-warfarin (CYP3A4 substrate) after a single dose of 20 mg warfarin. Selexipag did not influence the pharmacodynamic effect of warfarin on the international normalised ratio.8Midazolam 
 At steady s tate after up -titration to 1 600micrograms selexipag twice a day, no clinically relevant change in exposure to midazolam, a sensitive intestinal and hepatic CYP3A4 substrate, or its metabolite, 1 -hydroxymidazolam, was observed. Concomitant administration of selexipag with CYP3A4 substrates does not require dose adjustment.Hormonal contraceptives 
 Specific drug -drug interaction studies with hormonal contraceptives have not been conducted. Since selexipag did not affect the exposure to the CYP3A4 substrates midazolam and R-warfarin or to the CYP2C9 substrate S -warfarin, reduced efficacy of hormonal contraceptives is not expected.
