4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Warfarin  
 Concomitant administration of Prasugrel Viatris  with coumarin derivatives other than warfarin has not been studied. Because of the potentia l for increased risk of bleeding, warfarin (or other coumarin derivatives) and prasugrel should be co -administered with caution (see section  4.4). 
 Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)  
 Concomitant administration with chronic NSAIDs has not been studied. Because of the potential for increased risk of bleeding, chronic NSAIDs (including CO X­2 inhibitors) and Prasugrel Viatris  should be co -administered with caution (see section  4.4). 
 Prasugrel Viatris  can be concomitantly administered with medicina l products metabolised by cytochrome P450 enzymes (including statins), or medicinal products that are inducers or inhibitors of cytochrome P450 enzymes. Prasugrel Viatris  can also be concomitantly administered with ASA, heparin, digoxin, and medicinal prod ucts that elevate gastric p 
 H, including proton pump inhibitors and H2 blockers. Although not studied in specific interaction studies, prasugrel has been co -administered in the phase  3 clinical  study  with low molecular weight heparin, bivalirudin, and GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors (no information available regarding the type of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor used) without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions.  
 Effects of other medicinal products on  Prasugrel Viatris  
 Acetylsalicylic acid  Prasugrel Viatris  is to be administered concomitantly with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). Although a pharmacodynamic interaction with ASA leading to an increased risk of bleeding is possible, the demonstration of the e fficacy and safety of prasugrel comes from patients concomitantly treated with ASA.  
 Heparin  A single intravenous bolus dose of unfractionated heparin (10 0 U/kg) did not significantly alter the prasugrel -mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation. Likewise, prasugrel did not significantly alter the  
6/44 effect of heparin on measures of coagulation. Therefore, both medicinal products can be administered concomitant ly. An increased risk of bleeding is possible when Prasugrel Viatris  is co-administered with heparin.  
 Statins  Atorvastatin (8 0 mg daily) did not alter the pharmacokinetics of prasugrel and its inhibition of platelet aggregation. Therefore, statins that ar e substrates of CYP3A are not anticipated to have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of prasugrel or its inhibition of platelet aggregation.  
 Medicinal products that elevate gastric p 
 H  Daily co administration of ranitidine (an H 2 blocker) or lansoprazole (a  proton pump inhibitor) did not change the prasugrel active metabolite’s AUC and T max, but decreased the C max by 14% and 29%, respectively. In the phase  3 clinical  study , prasugrel was administered without regard to co administration of a proton pump inhib itor or H 2 blocker. Administration of the 6 0 mg prasugrel loading dose without concomitant use of proton pump inhibitors may provide most rapid onset of action.  
 Inhibitors of CYP3A  Ketoconazole (40 0 mg daily), a selective and potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 an d CYP3A5, did not affect prasugrel -mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation or the prasugrel active metabolite’s AUC and Tmax, but decreased the C max by 34% to 46%. Therefore, CYP3A inhibitors such as azol antifungals, HIV protease inhibitors, clarithro mycin, telithromycin, verapamil, diltiazem, indinavir, ciprofloxacin, and grapefruit juice are not anticipated to have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of the active metabolite.  
 Inducers of cytochromes P450  Rifampicin (60 0 mg daily), a potent inducer of CYP3A and CYP2B6, and an inducer of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2C8, did not significantly change the pharmacokinetics of prasugrel. Therefore, known CYP3A inducers such as rifampicin, carbamazepine, and other inducers of cytochromes P450 are not an ticipated to have significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of the active metabolite.  
 Morphine and other opioids  A delayed and decreased exposure to oral P2Y12 inhibitors, including prasugrel and its active metabolite, has been observed in patients with acute coronary syndrome treated with morphine. This interaction may be related to reduced gastrointestinal motility and apply to other opioids. The clinical relevance is unknown, but data indicate the potential for reduced prasugrel efficacy in patients co -administered prasugrel and morphine. In patients with acute coronary syndrome, in whom morphine cannot be withheld and fast P2Y12 inhibition is deemed crucial, the use of a parenteral P2Y12 inhibitor may be considered.  
 Effects of Prasugrel Viatris  on other medicinal products  
 Digoxin  Prasugrel has no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin.  
 Medicinal products metabolised by CYP2C9  Prasugrel did not inhibit CYP2C9, as it did not affect the pharmacokinetics of S­warfa rin. Because of the potential for increased risk of bleeding, warfarin and Prasugrel Viatris  should be co -administered with caution (see section  4.4). 
 Medicinal products metabolised by CYP2B6  Prasugrel is a weak inhibitor of CYP2B6. In healthy subjects, prasugrel decreased exposure to hydroxybupropion, a CYP2B6 -mediated metabolite of bupropion, by 23%. This effect is likely to be of clinical concern only when prasugrel is co administered with m edicinal products for which CYP2B6 is the only metabolic pathway and have a narrow therapeutic window (e.g. cyclophosphamide, efavirenz).  
  
7/44 