4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Everolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4, and also  a substrate and moderate inhibitor of Pg 
 P. Therefore, absorption and subsequent elimination of everolimus may be influenced by products that affect CYP3A4 and/or Pg 
 P. In vitro , everolimus is a competitive inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a mixed inhibitor of CYP2D 6. 
 Known and theoretical interactions with selected inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 and Pg 
 P are listed in Table  2 below.  
 CYP3A4 and Pg 
 P inhibitors increasing everolimus concentrations  
 Substances that are inhibitors of CYP3A4 or Pg 
 P may increase everolimus blood concentrations by decreasing metabolism or the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells.  
 CYP3A4 and Pg 
 P inducers decreasing everolimus concentrations  
 Substances that are indu cers of CYP3A4 or Pg 
 P may decrease everolimus blood concentrations by increasing metabolism or the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells.  
 Table  2 Effects of other active substances on everolimus  
 Active substance by interaction  
 Interaction – Change in Everolimus AUC/C max Geometric mean ratio (observed range)  Recommendations concerning co-administration  
 Potent  CYP3A4/Pg 
 P inhibitors  Ketoconazole  AUC ↑15.3 -fold (range 11.2 -22.5)  Cmax ↑4.1-fold (range 2.6 -7.0) Concomitant treatment of Afinitor and potent inhibitors is not recommended.  Itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole  Not studied. Large increase in everolimus concentration is expected.  Telithromycin, clarithromycin  Nefazodone  Ritonavir, atazanavir, saquinavir, darunavir, indinavir, nelfinavir  
 10 Moderate  CYP3A4/Pg 
 P inhibitors  Erythromycin  AUC ↑4.4 -fold (range 2.0 -12.6)  Cmax ↑2.0-fold (range 0.9 -3.5) Use caution when co-administration of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or Pg 
 P inhibitors cannot be avoided. If patients require co -administration of a moderate CYP3A4 or Pg 
 P inhibitor, dose reduction to 5  mg daily or 2.5 mg daily  may be considered. However, there are no clinical data with this dose adjustment. Due to between subject variability the recommended dose adjustments may not be optimal in all individuals, therefore close monitoring of side effects is recommended  (see sec tions  4.2 and 
4.4). If the moderate inhibitor is discontinued, consider a washout period of at least 2 to 3  days (average elimination time for most commonly used moderate inhibitors) before the Afinitor dose is returned to the dose used prior to initiation  of the co -administration.  Imatinib  AUC ↑ 3.7-fold Cmax ↑ 2.2-fold Verapamil  AUC ↑3.5 -fold (range 2.2 -6.3) Cmax ↑2.3-fold (range1.3 -3.8) Ciclosporin oral  AUC ↑2.7 -fold (range 1.5 -4.7) Cmax ↑1.8-fold (range 1.3 -2.6) Cannabidiol (Pg P inhibitor ) AUC ↑2.5 -fold Cmax ↑2.5-fold Fluconazole  Not studied. Increased exposure expected.  Diltiazem  Dronedarone  Not studied. Increased exposure expected.  Amprenavir, fosamprenavir  Not studied. Increased exposure expected.  Grapefruit juice or other food affecting CYP3A4/Pg 
 P  Not studied. Increased exposure expected (the effect varies widely).  Combination should be avoided.  
 Potent  and moderate  CYP3A4 inducers  Rifampicin  AUC ↓63%  (range 0 -80%)  Cmax ↓58%  (range 10 -70%)  Avoid the use of concomitant potent CYP3A4 inducers. If patients require co -administration of a potent CYP3A4 inducer, an Afinitor dose increase from 10  mg daily up to 20  mg daily should be considered using 5  mg increments or less applied on Day 4 and 8 following start of the inducer. This dose of Afinitor is predicted to adjust the AUC to the range observed without inducers. However, there are no clinical data with this dose adjustment. If treatment with the inducer is discontinued, consider a washout period of at least 3 to 5  days (reasonable time for significant enzyme de -induction), before  the Afinitor dose is returned to the dose used prior to initiation of the co-administration.  Dexamethasone  Not studied. Decreased exposure expected.  Carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin  Not studied. Decreased exposure expected.  Efavirenz, nevirapine  Not studied. Decreased exposure expected.  St John’s Wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) Not studied. Large decrease in exposure expected.  Preparations containing St John’s Wort should not be used during treatment with everolimus  
 11 Agents whose plasma concentration may be altered by everolimus  
 Based on in vitro  results, the systemic concentrations obtained after oral daily doses of 10  mg make inhibition of Pg 
 P, CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 unlikely. However, inhibition of CYP3A4 and Pg 
 P in the gut cannot be excluded. An interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated th at co -administration of an oral dose of midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A substrate probe, with everolimus resulted in a 25% increase in midazolam C max and a 30% increase in midazolam AUC (0-inf). The effect is likely to be due to inhibition of intestinal CYP3A4  by everolimus. Hence everolimus may affect the bioavailability of orally co -administered CYP3A4 substrates. However, a clinically relevant effect on the exposure of systemically administered CYP3A4 substrates is not expected (see section  4.4). 
 Co-adminis tration of everolimus and depot octreotide increased octreotide C min with a geometric mean ratio (everolimus/placebo) of 1.47. A clinically significant effect on the efficacy response to everolimus in patients with advanced neuroendocrine tumours could not  be established.  
 Co-administration of everolimus and exemestane increased exemestane C min and C 2h by 45% and 64%, respectively. However, the corresponding oestradiol levels at steady state (4  weeks) were not different between the two treatment arms. No in crease in adverse reactions related to exemestane was observed in patients with hormone receptor -positive advanced breast cancer receiving the combination. The increase in exemestane levels is unlikely to have an impact on efficacy or safety.  
 Concomitant use of angiotensin -converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors  
 Patients taking concomitant ACE inhibitor (e.g. ramipril) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema (see section  4.4). 
 Vaccinations  
 The immune response to vaccination may be affected and, therefore, vaccination may be less effective during treatment with Afinitor. The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with Afinitor (see section  4.4). Examples of live vaccines are:  intranasal influenza, measles, mumps, rubella, oral polio, BCG (Bacillus Calmette -Guérin), yellow fever, varicella, and TY21a typhoid vaccines.  
 Radiation treatment  
 Potentiation of radiation treatment toxicity has been reported in patients receiving ever olimus (see sections  4.4 and 4.8).  
 
