4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Carfilzomib is primarily metabolised via peptidase and epoxide hydrolase activities, and as a result, the pharmacokinetic profile of carfilzomib is unlikely to be affected by concomitant administration of cytochrome P450 inhibitors and inducers.  
 In vitro  studies indicated that carfilzomib did not induce human CYP3A4 in cultured human hepatocytes. A clinical study using oral midazolam as a CYP3A probe conducted with carfilzomib at a dose of 27  mg/m2 (2-10 minute infusion) demonstrated that the pharmacokinetics of midazolam were unaffected by concomitant carfilzomib administration, indicating that carfilzomib is not expected to inhibit the metabolism of CYP3A4/5 substrates and is not a CYP3A4 inducer in human subjects. No clinical study was conducted with a dose of 56  mg/m2. However, it is unknown whether carfilzomib is an inducer of CYP1A2, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19 and 2B6 at therapeutic concentrations. Caution should be observed when carfilzomib is combined with medicinal products that are substrates of these enzymes, such as oral contraceptives. Effective measures to avoid pregnancy should be taken (see section  4.6, and refer also to the current lenalidomide summary of product characteristics), an alternative method of effective contraception should be used if the patient is using oral contraceptives.  
 Carfilzomib does not inhibit CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19 and 2D6 in vitro  and is therefore not expected to influence exposure of medicinal products that are substrates of these enzymes as a result of inhibition.  14 
  Carfilzomib is a P -glycoprotein (P -gp) but not a BCRP substrate. However, given that Kyprolis is administrated intravenously and is extensively metabolised, the pharmacokinetic profile of carfilzomib is unlikely to be affected by P -gp or BCRP inhibitors or inducers. In vitro , at concentrations (3  µM) lower than those expected at therapeutic doses, carfilzomib inhibits the efflux transport of digoxin, a P-gp substrate, by 25%. Caution should be observed when carfilzomib is combined with substrates of P-gp (e.g. digoxin, colchicine).  
 In vitro , carfilzomib inhibits OATP1B1 with an IC 50 = 2.01 µM whereas it is unknown whether carfilzomib may or not inhibit other transporters OATP1B3, OAT1, OAT3, OCT2 and BSEP, at the systemic level. Carfilzomib does not inhibit human UGT2B7 but inhibits human UGT1A1 with an IC50 of 5.5  µM. Nonetheless, considering the fast elimination of carfilzomib, notably a rapid decline in systemic concentration 5  minutes after the end of infusion, the risk of clinically relevant interactions with substrates of OATP1B1 and UGT1A1 is probably low.  
 
