4.5  Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Concurrent administration of either calcium carbonate or aluminium and magnesium -hydroxide containing antacids do not affect the systemic exposure of raloxifene.  
 Co-admi nistration of raloxifene and warfar in does not alter the pharmacokinetics of either compound. However, modest decreases in the prothrombin time have been observed, and if raloxifene is given concurrently with warfarin or other coumarin derivatives, the pro thrombin time should be monitored. Effects on prothrombin time may develop over several weeks if Evista treatment is started in patients who are already on coumarin anticoagulant therapy.  
 Raloxifene has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of methylprednisol one given as a single dose.  
 Raloxi fene does not affect the steady -state AUC of digoxin. The C max of digoxin increased by less than 
5 %. 
 The influence of concomitant medication on raloxifene plasma concentrations was evaluated in the prevention and treatm ent trials. Frequently co -administe red medicinal products included: paracetamol, non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs (such as acetylsalicylic acid, ibuprofen, and naproxen), oral antibiotics, H1 antagonists, H2 antagonists, and benzodiazepines. No clinic ally relevant effects of the co-administration of the agents on raloxifene plasma concentrations were identified.  
 Concomitant use of vaginal oestrogen preparations was allowed in the clinical trial programme, if necessary to treat atrophic vaginal symptom s. Compared to placebo there was no  increased use in Evista treated patients.  
 In vitro,  raloxifene did not interact with the binding of warfarin, phenytoin, or tamoxifen.  
 Raloxifene should not be co -administered with cholestyramine (or other anion exchan ge resins), which significantly red uces the absorption and enterohepatic cycling of raloxifene.  
 Peak concentrations of raloxifene are reduced with co -administration with ampicillin. However, since the overall extent of absorption and the elimination rate of raloxifene are not affected, ral oxifene can be concurrently administered with ampicillin.  
 5 Raloxifene modestly increases hormone -binding globulin concentrations, including sex steroid binding globulins (SHBG), thyroxine binding globulin (TBG), and corti costeroid binding globulin (CBG), with corresponding increases in total hormone concentrations. These changes do not affect concentrations of free hormones.  
 
