4.5 mg and 6  mg hard capsules contain Allura red AC (E  129), which may cause allergic reactions.  
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Potential for other medicinal products to affect cariprazine  
 Metabolism of cariprazine and its major active metabolites, desmethyl cariprazine (DCAR) and didesmethyl cariprazine (DDCAR), is mediated mainly by CYP3A4 with a minor contribution of CYP2D6.  
 CYP3A4 inhibitors  Ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, caused two -fold increase in plasma exposure for total cariprazine (sum of cariprazine and its active metabolites) during short -term (4  days) co-administration, either if unbound or unbound+bound moieties considered.  Due to the long half -life of the active moieties of cariprazine a further increase in plasma exposure of total cariprazine can be expe cted during longer co- administration. Therefore, co- administration of cariprazine with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. boceprevir, clarithromycin, cobicistat, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, posaconaz ole, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, telithromycin, voriconazole ) is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Erythromycin (500 mg twice daily), a moderate CY P3A4 inhibitor, caused on average a 1.4- fold (range 1.03- 2.32- fold) increase in plasma exposure of total cariprazine after 3 weeks of co-administration. Therefore, during a period of  co-administration of cariprazine with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., erythromycin, fluconazole, diltiazem, verapamil), monitoring of the individual response and tolerability is recommended and, if needed, the  cariprazine dose should be  (temporarily)  reduced  to account for the potential increase in exposure . Because of the long half -life of cariprazine and its active metabolites, starting or stopping a treatment with a moderate CYP 3A4 inhibitor or changing the dose will not be f ully reflected in plasma drug levels until after several weeks. Patients should be monitored for adverse reactions and treatment response for several weeks after initiating or stopping an interacting drug or after each cariprazine dose change . 
 Consumption of grapefruit juice should be avoided.  
  
7 CYP3A4 inducers  Co-administration of cariprazine with strong and moderate inducers of CYP3A4 may result in a significant decrease in total cariprazine exposure, therefore the co -administration of caripraz ine and strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampicin, St. John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ), bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin) is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 CYP2D6 inhibitors  CYP2D6 mediated pathway plays a minor role in the metabolism of cariprazine, the major pathway is via CYP3A4 (see section 5.2). Therefore CYP2D6 inhibitors are unlikely to have a clinically relevant effect on cariprazine metabolism.  
 Potential f or cariprazine to affect other medicinal products  
 P-glycoprotein (P -gp) substrates Cariprazine is a P -gp inhibitor in vitro  at its theoretical maximum intestinal concentration. The clinical consequences of this effect is not fully understood, however the use of P -gp substrates with narrow therapeutic index such as dabigatran and digoxin could require extra monitoring and dose adjustment.  
 Hormonal contraceptives  
 In a drug interaction study, 28 days of treatment with cariprazine at 6  mg daily had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of oral contraceptives (ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel).  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 Given the primary central nervous system effects of cariprazine, Reagila should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting medicinal products and alcohol.  
 
