4.5 and 4.6). 
 Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-blocking agents (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including infliximab in the post-marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents treated with TNF-blockers cannot be excluded. 
 Post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients treated with TNF-blocking agents including infliximab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is usually fatal. Almost all patients had received treatment with AZA or 6-MP concomitantly with or immediately prior to a TNF-blocker. The vast majority of infliximab cases have occurred in patients with Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis and most were reported in adolescent or young adult males. The potential risk with the combination of AZA or 6-MP and infliximab should be carefully considered. A risk for the development for hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in patients treated with infliximab cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). 
 Sodium content 
 Inflectra contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e., essentially ‘sodium-free’. Inflectra is however, diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion. This should be taken into consideration for patients on a controlled sodium diet (see section 6.6). 
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No interaction studies have been performed. 
 In rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and Crohn’s disease patients, there are indications that concomitant use of methotrexate and other immunomodulators reduces the formation of antibodies against infliximab and increases the plasma concentrations of infliximab. However, the results are uncertain due to limitations in the methods used for serum analyses of infliximab and antibodies against infliximab. 
 Corticosteroids do not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of infliximab to a clinically relevant 14 extent. 
 The combination of infliximab with other biological therapeutics used to treat the same conditions as infliximab, including anakinra and abatacept, is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
 It is recommended that live vaccines not be given concurrently with infliximab. It is also recommended that live vaccines not be given to infants after in utero exposure to infliximab for 
12 months following birth. If infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable or infliximab administration was limited to the first trimester of pregnancy, administration of a live vaccine might be considered at an earlier timepoint if there is a clear clinical benefit for the individual infant (see section 4.4). 
 Administration of a live vaccine to a breastfed infant while the mother is receiving infliximab is not recommended unless infant infliximab serum levels are undetectable (see sections 4.4 and 4.6). 
 It is recommended that therapeutic infectious agents not be given concurrently with infliximab (see section 4.4). 
 
