4.5 and 4.8).  
 Ciclosporin  
 Caution should be exercised when initiating Nustendi  in the setting of ciclosporin. Ciclosporin concentrations should be monitored in patients receiving Nustendi  and ciclosporin (see section 4.5).  
 Anticoagulants  
 If Nustendi  is added to warfarin, other  coumarin anticoagulant s, or fluindione, the International Normalised Ratio (INR) should be appropriately monitored (see section 4.5).  
 Contraception  
 Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception durin g treatment. Patients should be advised to stop taking Nustendi  before stopping contraceptive measures if they plan to become  pregnant.  
 Excipients  
 Nustendi  contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency, or glucose -galactose malabsorption should not take this  medicinal product . 
 This medicine  contains less than 1  mmol sodium (23  mg) per 180  mg/10 mg film-coated tablet (daily dose), that is to say  essentially ‘sodium free’ . 
 Patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease  
 Evidence for the use of the  fixed  combination  medicinal product  of bempedoic acid with ezetimibe in patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease is only available for the lipid -lowering effect in absence of any cardiovascular risk reduction estimation  for ezetimibe in primary prevention patients  (see section 5.1) . 
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No specific pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with Nustendi  have been conducted.  Drug interactions that have been identified in studies with bempedoic a cid or ezetimibe determine the interactions that may occur with Nustendi . 
 Effects of other medicinal products on individual components of Nustendi  
 Fibrates  Concomitant fenofibrate or gemfibrozil administration modestly increased total ezetimibe concentrations (approximately 1.5 - and 1.7 -fold, respectively). Fenofibrate may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased cholesterol in the gallbladder bile (see section 5. 3). A lithogenic risk associated with the therapeutic use of Nustendi  cannot be ruled out.  
 If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving Nustendi  and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid -lowering therapy should be c onsidered  (see section 4.4) . 
 6 Ciclosporin  In a study of eight post -renal transplant patients with creatinine clearance of >  50 m 
 L/min on a stable dose of ciclosporin, a single 10  mg dose of ezetimibe resulted in a 3.4 -fold (range 2.3 - to 7.9 -fold) increase  in the mean area under the curve ( AUC ) for total ezetimibe compared to a healthy control population, receiving ezetimibe alone, from another study (n=17). In a different study, a renal transplant patient with severe renal impairment  who was receiving cicl osporin and multiple other medicinal products demonstrated a 12 -fold greater exposure to total ezetimibe compared to concurrent controls receiving ezetimibe alone. In a two -period crossover study in twelve healthy subjects, daily administration of 20  mg ez etimibe for 8  days with a single 100  mg dose of ciclosporin on day 7 resulted in a mean 15% increase in ciclosporin AUC (range 10% decrease to 51% increase) compared to a single 100  mg dose of ciclosporin alone. A controlled study on the effect o f coadmini stered ezetimibe on ciclosporin exposure in renal transplant patients has not been conducted. Caution should be exercised when initiating Nustendi  in the setting of ciclosporin. Ciclosporin concentrations should be monitored in patients receiving Nustendi  and ciclosporin  (see section 4.4) . 
 Cholestyramine  Concomitant cholestyramine administration decreased the mean AUC of total ezetimibe (ezetimibe plus ezetimibe glucuronide) approximately 55%. The incremental low -density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL -C) reduction due to adding Nustendi  to cholestyramine may be lessened by this interaction (see section 4.2).  
 Transporter -mediated drug interactions  In vitr o drug interaction studies suggest bempedoic acid, as well as its active metabolite and glucuronide form, are not substrates of commonly characteri sed drug transporters with the exception of bempedoic acid glucuronide, which is an OAT3 substrate.  
 Probenec id Probenecid, an inhibitor of glucuronide conjugation, was studied to evaluate the potential effect of these inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of bempedoic acid. Administration of bempedoic acid 
180 mg with steady -state probenecid resulted in a 1.7-fold increase in bempedoic ac id AUC  and a 
1.9­fold increase in  bempedoic acid active metabolite ( ESP15228 ) AUC . These elevations are not clinically meaningful and do not imp act dosing recommendations.  
 Effects of individual components of Nustendi  on ot her medicinal products  
 Statins  The pharmacokinetic interactions between bempedoic acid 180  mg and simvastatin 40  mg, atorvastatin 80  mg, pravastatin 80  mg, and rosuvastatin 40  mg were evaluated in clinical trials.  Administration of a single dose of simvas tatin 40  mg with steady -state bempedoic acid 180  mg resulted in a 2 -fold increase in simvastatin acid exposure. Elevations of 1.4 -fold to 1.5 -fold in AUC of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and rosuvastatin (administered as single doses) and/or their major metabolites were observed when coadministered with bempedoic acid 180  mg. Higher elevations have been observed when these statins were coadministered with a supratherapeutic 240  mg dose of bempedoic acid (see section 4.4).  
 No clinically significant pharma cokinetic interactions were seen when ezetimibe was coadministered with atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, lovastatin, fluvastatin or rosuvastatin.  
 Transporter -mediated drug interactions  Bempedoic acid and its glucuronide weakly inhibit OATP1B1 and O ATP1B3 at clinically relevant concentrations. Coadministration of Nustendi  with medicinal products that are substrates of OATP1B1 or OATP1B3 (i.e., bosentan, fimasartan, asunaprevir, glecaprevir, grazoprevir, voxilaprevir, and statins such as atorvastatin,  pravastatin, fluvastatin, pitavastatin, rosuvastatin, and simvastatin [see section 4.4]) may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products.  
 Bempedoic acid inhibits OAT2 in vitro , which may be the mechanism responsible for minor elevations in serum creatinine and uric acid (see section 4.8). Inhibition of OAT2 by bempedoic acid 7 may also potentially increase plasma concentrations of medicinal products that are substrates of OAT2. Bempedoic acid may also weakly inhibit OAT3 at clinica lly relevant concentrations.  
 Anticoagulants  Concomitant administration of ezetimibe (10  mg once daily) had no significant effect on bioavailability of warfarin and prothrombin time in a study of twelve healthy adult males. However, there have been postmarketing reports of increased INR in patients who had ezetimibe added to warfarin or fluindione.  
 If Nustendi  is added to warfarin, other coumarin anticoagulants, or fluindione, INR should be appropriately monitored (see section 4.4).  
 Other  interacti ons studied  Bempedoic acid had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of oral contraceptive norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol . In clinical interaction studies, ezetimibe had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of oral contraceptives ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel.  Bempedoic acid had no effect on the pharmacokinetics  or pharmacodynamics  of metformin.  
 In clinical interaction studies, ezetimibe had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of dapsone, dextromethorphan, digoxin, glipizide, tolbutamide, or midaz olam, during coadministration.  
 
