4.5   Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction    
   Antidepressants   
 Tri or tetracyclic antidepressants (e.g. imipramine, clomipramine, mirtazapine) may impair the efficacy of pitolisant because they display histamine H1 -receptor antagonist activity and possibly cancel the effect of endogenous histamine released in brain by the treatment.   
   Anti-histamines   
 Anti-histamines  (H1-receptor antagonists) crossing the haemato- encephalic barrier (e.g. pheniramine maleate, chlorpheniramine, diphenydramine, promethazine, mepyramine , doxylamine ) may impair the efficacy of pitolisant.   
   QT-prolonging substances  or known to increase the risk of repolarization disorders   
 Combination with pitolisant should be made with a careful monitoring (see section 4.4).  
  Pharmacokinetic interactions   
 Medicinal products affecting pitolisant metabolism  
  
- Enzyme inducer s   Co-administration of pitolisant with rifampicin in multiple doses significantly decreases pitolisant mean C max and AUC ratio about 39% and 50%, respectively. Therefore, co- administration of pitolisant with potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin) should be done with caution. With St John’s Wort (Hypericum Perforatum), due t o its strong CYP3A4 inducing effect, caution should be exercised when taken concurrently with pitolisant. A clinical monitoring should be made whe n both active substances are combined and, eventually a dosage adjustment during the combination and one week after the inducer treatment.   In a clinical multiple dose study, the combination of pitolisant with probenecid decrease s the AUC of pitolisant by about 34%.  
   
- CYP2D6 inhibitors   Co-administration of pitolisant with paroxetine significantly increases pitolisant mean C max and AUC 0—72h ratio about 47% and 105%, respectively. Given the 2- fold increase of pitolisant exposure, its coadministration with CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g. paroxetine, fluoxetine, venlafaxine, duloxetine, bupropion, quinidine, terbinafine, cinacalcet) should be done with caution. A dosage adjustment during the combination could eventually be considered.   
   Medicinal products  that pitolisant may affect metabolism  
  
- CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 substrates  Based on in vitro  data, pitolisant  and its main metabolites may induce CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 at therapeutic concentrations and by extrapolation, CYP2C, UGTs and P -gp. No clinical data on the magnitude of this interaction are available. Therefore, the combination of pitolisant with substrates o f CYP3A4 and having a narrow therapeutic margin (e.g. immunosuppressants, docetaxel, kinase 6   inhibitors, cisapride, pimozide, halofantrine) should be avoided (see section 4.4). With other CYP3A4, CYP2B6 (e.g. efavirenz, bupropion), CYP2C (e.g. repaglinide, phenytoin, warfarin), P -gp (e.g. dabigatran, digoxin) and UGT (e.g. morphine, paracetamol, irinotecan) substrates , caution should be made with a clinical monitoring of their efficacy.   
 With oral contraceptives, the combination with pitolisant should be avoided and a further reliable contraceptive method used.  
  - Substrates of OCT1   Pitolisant shows greater than 50% inhibition towards OCT1 (organic cation transporters 1) at 
1.33 µM, the extrapolated IC
50 of pitolisant is 0.795 µM.   
 Even if the clinical relevance of this effect is not established, caution is advised when pitolisant is administered with a substrate of OCT1 (e.g. metformin (biguanides)) (see section 5.2).   
   The combination of pitolisant with modafinil or sodium oxybate, usual treatments of narcolepsy was evaluated in healthy volunteers, at therapeutic doses. No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic drug -drug interaction was evidenced either with modafinil or wi th sodium oxybate.  
 Paediatric population   
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.   
   
