4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Effects of other medicinal products on bempedoic acid  
 Transporter-mediated d rug interactions  In vitro  drug interaction studies suggest bempedoic acid, as well as its active metabolite and glucuronide form, are not substrates of commonly characteri sed drug transporters with the exception of bempedoic acid glucuronide, which is an OAT3 substrate.  
 Probenecid  Probenecid, an inhibitor of glucuronide conjugation, was studied to evaluate the potential effect of these inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of bempedoic acid.  Administration of bempedoic acid 
180 mg with steady -state probenecid resulted in a 1 .7-fold increase in bempedoic acid area under the curve  (AUC ) and a 1.9-fold increase in  bempedoic acid active metabolite ( ESP15228 ) AUC . These elevations are not clinically meaningful and do not impact dosing recommendations.  
 Effects of bempedoic acid on  other medicinal products  
 Statins  The pharmacokinetic interactions between bempedoic acid 180 mg and simvastatin 40 mg, atorvastatin 80  mg, pravastatin 80 mg, and rosuvastatin 40 mg were evaluated in clinical trials.  Administration of a single dose of sim vastatin 40  mg with steady -state bempedoic acid 180  mg 5 resulted in a 2 -fold increase in simvastatin acid exposure. Elevations of 1.4-fold to 1.5-fold in AUC of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and rosuvastatin (administered as single doses) and/or their major metabolites were observed when coadministered with bempedoic acid 180  mg. Higher elevations have been observed when these statins were coadministered with a supratherapeutic 240  mg dose of bempedoic acid (see section 4.4).  
 Transporter-mediated drug interactions  Bempedoic acid and its glucuronide weakly inhibit OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 at clinically relevant concentrations. Coadministration of bempedoic acid  with medicinal products that are substrates of OATP1B1 or OATP1B3 (i.e., b osentan, fimasartan, asun aprevir, glecaprevir, grazoprevir, voxilaprevir, and statins such as atorvastatin, pravastatin, fluvastatin, pitavastatin, rosuvastatin, and simvastatin [see section 4.4]) may result in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products.  
 Bempedoi c acid inhibits OAT2 in vitro , which may be the mechanism responsible for minor elevations in serum creatinine and uric acid (see section 4.8). Inhibition of OAT2 by bempedoic acid may also potentially increase plasma concentrations of  medicinal products t hat are substrates of OAT2. Bempedoic acid may also weakly inhibit OAT3 at clinically relevant concentrations. 
 Ezetimibe  Total ezetimibe (ezetimibe and its glucuronide form) and ezetimibe glucuronide AUC and Cmax increased approximately 1 .6- and 1.8-fold, respectively, when a single dose of ezetimibe was taken with steady -state bempedoic acid. This increase is likely d ue to inhibition of OATP1B1 by bempedoic acid, which results in decreased hepatic uptake and subs equently decreased  elimination of ezetimibe-glucuronide . Increases in AUC and C max for ezetimibe were less than 20% . These elevations are not clinically meaningful and do not impact dosing recommendations.  
 Other interactions studied  Bempedoic acid had no effect on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of metformin or the pharmacokinetics of oral contraceptive  norethindrone/ethinyl  estradiol . 
 
