4.5 Interaction with other medici nal products and other forms o f interaction 
 Daptomycin undergoes little to no Cytochrome P450 (CYP450)-medi ated metabolism. It is unlikely that daptomycin will inhibit or induce the metabolism of medicinal p roducts metabolised by the P450 system.  
 Interaction studies for daptomyc in were performed with aztreona m, tobramycin, warfarin and probenecid. Daptomycin had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of warfarin or  probenecid, nor did these medicinal 9 
 products alter the pharmacokineti cs of daptomycin. The pharmaco kinetics of daptomycin were not significantly altered by aztreonam.   Although small changes in the pharmacokinetics of daptomycin an d tobramycin were observed during co-administration by intravenous  infusion over a 30-minute peri od using a daptomycin dose of 2 mg/kg, the changes were not statistica lly significant. The interaction  between daptomycin and tobramycin with an approved dose of daptomycin is unknown. Caution is warranted wh en daptomycin is co-administered with tobramycin.  Experience with the concomitant a dministration of daptomycin an d warfarin is limited. Studies of daptomycin with anticoagulants o ther than warfarin have not bee n conducted. Anticoagulant activity in patients receiving daptomycin a nd warfarin should be monitored for the first several days after therapy with Daptomycin Hospira is initiated.   There is limited experience reg arding concomitant administratio n of daptomycin with other medicinal products that may tri gger myopathy (e.g. HMG-Co 
 A reductase inhi bitors). However, some cases of marked rises in CPK levels a nd cases of rhabdomyolysis occurred  in adult patients taking one of these medicinal products at the same ti me as daptomycin. It is recomm ended that other medicinal products associated with myopathy should if  possible be temporarily disc ontinued during treatment with daptomycin unless the benefits o f concomitant administration ou tweigh the risk. If co-administration cannot be avoided, CPK levels s hould be measured more frequentl y than once weekly and patients should be closely monitored for any signs or symptoms that might repre sent myopathy (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.3).   Daptomycin is primarily cleared by renal filtration and so plas ma levels may be increased during co-administration with medicinal  products that reduce renal fil tration (e.g. NSAIDs and COX-2 inhibitors). In addition, there  is a potential for a pharmacody namic interaction to occur during co-administration due to additiv e renal effects. Therefore, cau tion is advised when daptomycin is co-administered with any other medicinal product known to reduc e renal filtration.  
 During post–marketing surveillan ce, cases of interference betwe en daptomycin and particular reagents used in some assays of prothromb in time/international normalise d ratio (PT/INR) have been reported. This interference led to a false prolongation of PT and elevation of  INR. If unexplained abnormalities of PT/INR are observed in patients taking daptomycin, consideratio n should be given to a possible in vitro  interaction with the laborator y test. The possibility of errone ous results may be minimised by drawing samples for PT or INR testing near the time of trough plasma co ncentrations of daptomycin (see section 4.4).  
 
