4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of other substances on trabectedin 
 Interaction studie s have only been performed in adults .  
8  Since trabectedin is metabolised mainly by CYP3A4,  the concentrations of trabectedin in plasma are likely to be increased in patients who are co- administered drugs that potently inhibit the activity of this isoenzyme.  Similarly, the co -administration of trabectedin with potent inducers of CPY3A4 may increase the metabolic clearance of trabectedin.  Two in vivo drug- drug interaction phase 1 studies have confirmed trends toward increased and decreased trabectedin exposure s when administered with ketoconazole and rifampi cin, respectively.  
 When ke toconazole was co -administered with trabectedin, the plasma exposure of trabectedin was increased by approximately 21% for  Cmax and 66% for AUC,  but no new safety concerns were identified. Close monitoring of toxicities is required in patients receiving trabectedin in combination with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. oral ketoconazole, fluconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin or aprepitant) and such combinations should be avoided if pos sible. If such combinations are needed, appropriate dose adjustments should be applied in the event of toxicities (see sections 4.2 and 4.4) . 
 When rifampicin was co -administered with trabectedin, it resulted in reduced plasma exposure of trabectedin by ap proximately 22% for  Cmax and 31% for AUC.  Therefore,  the concomitant use of trabectedin with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampi cin, phenobarbital, Saint John’s Wort) should be avoided if possible (see section 4.4).   
 Alcohol consumption must be avoided during treatment with trabectedin due to the hepatotoxicity of the medicinal product (see section 4.4).  
 Preclinical data have demonstrated that trabectedin is a substrate to P -gp. Concomitant administration of inhibitors of P -gp, e.g. cyclosporine and ver apamil, may alter trabectedin distribution and/or elimination. The relevance of this interaction e.g. central nervous system  (CNS ) toxicity has not been established. Caution should be taken in such situations.  
 
