4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Concomitant use not recommended  
 Lithium  Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concurrent use of lithium and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. A similar effect may occur with a ngiotensin II receptor antagonists. Due to the lack of experience with concomitant use of azilsartan medoxomil and lithium, this combination is not recommended. If the combination proves necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. 
 Caution required with concomitant use  
 Non-steroidal ant i-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including selective COX- 2 inh ibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (> 3 g/day), and non- selective NSAIDs  When angiotensin II receptor antagonists are administered simultaneously with NSAIDs (i.e. selective COX -2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (>  3 g/day) and non- selective NSAIDs),  attenuation of the antihypertensive effect may occur. Furthermore, concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an increased risk of worsening of renal function and an increase in serum potassium. Therefore, adequate hydration and monitoring of renal function at the beginning of the treatment are recommended.  
 Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium and other substances that may increase potassium levels  Concomitant use of potassium -sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium, or other medicinal products (e.g. heparin) may increase potassium levels. Monitoring of serum potassium should be undertaken as appropriate (see section 4.4). 
 Additional information  
 Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the RAAS through the combined use of ACE -inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS -acting agent (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
 6 No clinically significant interactions have been reported in studies of azilsartan medoxomil or azilsartan given with a mlodipine, antacids, chlortalidone, digoxin, fluconazole, glyburide, ketoconazole, metformin, and warfarin. Following administration with a mixture of  cytochrome  P450 (CYP) prob e substrates, no clinically significant drug interactions were  observed with caffeine (CYP1A2), tolbutamide (CYP2C9), dextromethorphan (CYP2D6), or midazolam (CYP3A4).  
 Azilsartan medoxomil is rapidly hydrolysed to the active moiety azilsa rtan by esterases in the gastro intestinal tract and/or during drug absorption ( see section  5.2). In vitro  studies indicated that interactions based on esterase inhib ition are  unlikely.  
 
