4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Pharmacodynamic interactions 
 Given the primary central nervous system effects of lurasidone, lurasidone should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting medicinal products and alcohol. Caution is advised when prescribing lurasidone with medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval, e.g. class IA antiarrhythmics (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide) and class III antiarrhythmics (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol), some antihistaminics, some other antipsychotics and some antimalarials (e.g. mefloquine). 6Latuda should be used cautiously when co-administered with other serotonergic agents, such as buprenorphine/opioids, MAO inhibitors, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitors (SNRIs) or tricyclic antidepressants as the risk of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, is increased (see section 4.4).Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 The concomitant administration of lurasidone and grapefruit juice has not been assessed. Grapefruit juice inhibits CYP3A4 and may increase the serum concentration of lurasidone. Grapefruit juice should be avoided during treatment with lurasidone.Potential for other medicinal products to affect lurasidone Lurasidone and its active metabolite ID-14283 both contribute to the pharmacodynamic effect at the dopaminergic and serotonergic receptors. Lurasidone and its active metabolite ID-14283 are primarily metabolised by CYP3A4. CYP3A4 inhibitors 
 Lurasidone is contraindicated with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. boceprevir, clarithromycin, cobicistat, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, posaconazole, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, telithromycin, voriconazole) (see section 4.3). Coadministration of lurasidone with the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole resulted in a 9- and 
6-fold increase in exposure of lurasidone and its active metabolite ID-14283 respectively. Co-administration of lurasidone and posaconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) resulted in an approximate 4-5 fold increase in lurasidone exposure.  A persistent effect of posaconazole on lurasidone exposure was observed up to 2-3 weeks after stop of posaconazole co-administration.Coadministration of lurasidone with medicinal products that moderately inhibit CYP3A4 (e.g. diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole verapamil) may increase exposure to lurasidone. Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors are estimated to result in a 2-5 fold increase in exposure of CYP3A4 substrates.Coadministration of lurasidone with diltiazem (slow-release formulation), a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a 2.2 and 2.4-fold increase in exposure of lurasidone and ID-14283 respectively (see section 4.2). The use of an immediate release formulation of diltiazem could result in a larger increase in lurasidone exposure.CYP3A4 inducers 
 Lurasidone is contraindicated with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampicin, St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum)) (see section 4.3).Coadministration of lurasidone with the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin resulted in a 6-fold decrease in exposure of lurasidone.Coadministration of lurasidone with mild (e.g. armodafinil, amprenavir, aprepitant, prednisone, rufinamide) or moderate (e.g. bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin) inducers of CYP3A4 would be expected to give a <2-fold reduction in lurasidone exposure during co-administration and for up to 2 weeks after discontinuation of mild or moderate CYP3A4 inducers.When lurasidone is coadministered with mild or moderate CYP3A4 inducers, the efficacy of lurasidone needs to be carefully monitored and a dose adjustment may be needed.Transporters Lurasidone is a substrate of P-gp and BCRP in vitro and the in vivo relevance of this is unclear. Coadministration of lurasidone with P-gp and BCRP inhibitors may increase exposure to lurasidone.7Potential for lurasidone to affect other medicinal products 
 Coadministration of lurasidone with midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, resulted in a < 1.5-fold increase in midazolam exposure.  Monitoring is recommended when lurasidone and CYP3A4 substrates known to have a narrow therapeutic index (e.g. astemizole, terfenadine, cisapride, pimozide, quinidine, bepridil or ergot alkaloids [ergotamine, dihydroergotamine]) are coadministered. Coadministration of lurasidone with digoxin (a P-gp substrate) did not increase the exposure to digoxin and only slightly increased Cmax (1.3 –fold) and therefore, it is considered that lurasidone can be coadministered with digoxin. Lurasidone is an in vitro inhibitor of the efflux transporter P-gp and the clinical relevance of intestinal P-gp inhibition cannot be excluded. Concomitant administration of the P-gp substrate dabigatran etexilate may result in increased dabigatran plasma concentrations. Lurasidone is an in vitro inhibitor of the efflux transporter BCRP and the clinical relevance of intestinal BCRP inhibition cannot be excluded. Concomitant administration of BCRP substrates may result in increases in the plasma concentrations of these substrates.Coadministration of lurasidone with lithium indicated that lithium had clinically negligible effects on the pharmacokinetics of lurasidone, therefore no dose adjustment of lurasidone is required when coadministered with lithium. Lurasidone does not impact concentrations of lithium.A clinical drug interaction study investigating the effect of coadministration of lurasidone on patients taking oral combination contraceptives including norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol, indicated that lurasidone had no clinically or statistically meaningful effects on the pharmacokinetics of the contraceptive or sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) levels. Therefore, lurasidone can be coadministered with oral contraceptives.
