4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 Eslicarbazepine acetate is extensively converted to eslicarbazepine, which is mainly eliminated by glucuronidation. In vitro  eslicarbazepine is a weak inducer of CYP3A4 and UDP -glucuronyl transferases. In vivo  eslicarbazepine showed an inducing ef fect on the metabolism of medicinal products that are mainly eliminated by metabolism through CYP3A4 (e.g . Simvastatin) . Thus, an increase in the dose of the medicinal products that are mainly metabolised through CYP3A4 may be required, when used concomita ntly with eslicarbazepine acetate. Eslicarbazepine in vivo  may have an inducing effect on the metabolism of medicinal products that are mainly eliminated by conjugation through the UDP -glucuronyl transferases. When initiating or discontinuing treatment wit h Zebinix or changing the dose, it may take 2 to 3 weeks to reach the new level of enzyme activity. This time delay must be taken into account when Zebinix is being used just prior to or in combination with other medicinal products that require dose adjust ment when co -administered with Zebinix. Eslicarbazepine has inhibiting properties with respect to CYP2C19. Thus, interactions can arise when co- administering high doses of eslicarbazepine acetate with medicinal products that are mainly metabolised by CYP2C 19 (e.g. Phenytoin) . 
 Interactions with other antiepileptic medicinal products  
 Carbamazepine  In a study in healthy subjects, concomitant administration of eslicarbazepine acetate 800  mg once daily and carbamazepine 400 mg twice daily resulted in an averag e decrease of 32% in exposure to the active metabolite eslicarbazepine, most likely caused by an induction of glucuronidation. No change in 6 exposure to carbamazepine or its metabolite carbamazepine- epoxide was noted. Based on individual response, the dose of eslicarbazepine acetate may need to be increased if used concomitantly with carbamazepine. Results from patient studies showed that concomitant treatment increased the risk of the following adverse reactions: diplopia, abnormal coordination and dizzines s. The risk of increase of other specific adverse reactions caused by co -administration of carbamazepine and eslicarbazepine acetate cannot be excluded.  
 Phenytoin  In a study in healthy subjects, concomitant administration of eslicarbazepine acetate 1,200  mg once daily and phenytoin resulted in an average decrease of 31- 33% in exposure to the active metabolite, eslicarbazepine, most likely caused by an induction of glucuronidation, and an average increase of 
31-35% in exposure to phenytoin, most likely caus ed by an inhibition of CYP2C19. Based on individual response, the dose of eslicarbazepine acetate may need to be increased and the dose of phenytoin may need to be decreased.  
 Lamotrigine  Glucuronidation is the major metabolic pathway for both eslicarbazepine and lamotrigine and , therefore, an interaction could be expected. A study in healthy subjects with eslicarbazepine acetate 
1,200 mg once daily showed a minor average pharmacokinetic interaction (exposure of lamotrigine decreased 15%) between eslicarbazepine acetate and lamotrigine and consequently no dose adjustments are required. However, due to inter -individual variability, the effect may be clinically relevant in some individuals.  
 Topiramate  In a study in healthy subjects, concomitant ad ministration of eslicarbazepine acetate 1,200 mg once daily and topiramate showed no significant change in exposure to eslicarbazepine but an 18% decrease in exposure to topiramate, most likely caused by a reduced bioavailability of topiramate. No dose adjustment is required .  
 Valproate and levetiracetam  A population pharmacokinetics analysis of phase III studies in epileptic adult patients indicated that concomitant administration with valproate or levetiracetam did not affect the exposure to eslicarbazep ine but this has not been verified by conventional interaction studies.  
 Oxcarbazepine  Concomitant use of eslicarbazepine acetate with oxcarbazepine is not recommended because this may cause overexposure to the active metabolites.  
 Other medicinal products  
 Oral contraceptives  Administration of eslicarbazepine acetate 1,200  mg once daily to female subjects using a combined oral contraceptive showed an average decrease of 37% and 42% in systemic exposure to levonorgestrel and ethinylestradi ol, respectively, most likely caused by an induction of CYP3A4. Therefore, women of childbearing potential must use adequate contraception during treatment with Zebinix, and up to the end of the current menstruation cycle after the treatment has been disco ntinued (see section4.6).  
 Simvastatin  A study in healthy subjects showed an average decrease of 50% in systemic exposure to simvastatin when co- administered with eslicarbazepine acetate 800  mg once daily, most likely caused by an induction of CYP3A4. An i ncrease of the simvastatin dose may be required when used concomitantly with eslicarbazepine acetate.  
 Rosuvastatin  7 There was an average decrease of 36 -39% in systemic exposure in healthy subjects when co-administered with eslicarbazepine acetate 1,200 mg once daily. The mechanism for this reduction is unknown, but could be due to interference  of transporter activity for rosuvastatin alone or in combination with induction of its metabolism. Since the relationship between exposure and drug activity is unclear, the monitoring of response to therapy (e.g., cholesterol levels) is recommended.  
 Warfarin  Co-administration of eslicarbazepine acetate 1,200  mg once daily with warfarin showed a small (23%) , but statistically significant decrease in exposure to S -warfarin. There was no effect on the R -warfarin pharmacokinetics or on coagulation. However, due to inter -individual variability in the interaction, special attention on monitoring of INR should be performed the first weeks after initiation or ending c oncomitant treatment of warfarin and eslicarbazepine acetate.  
 Digoxin  A study in healthy subjects showed no effect of eslicarbazepine acetate 1,200  mg once daily on digoxin pharmacokinetics, suggesting that eslicarbazepine acetate has no effect on the tr ansporter P -glycoprotein.  
 Monoamino Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs)  Based on a structural relationship of eslicarbazepine acetate to tricyclic antidepressants, an interaction between eslicarbazepine acetate and MAOIs is theoretically possible.  
 
