4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No formal drug interaction studies have been performed.  
 Pertuzumab 
 No PK interactions were observed between pertuzumab and trastuzumab, or between pertuzumab and docetaxel in a sub- study of 37 patients in the randomised, pivotal trial CLEOPATRA in metastatic breast cancer. In addition, in the population PK analysis, no evidence  of a drug -drug interaction has been shown between pertuzumab and trastuzumab or between pertuzumab and docetaxel. This absence of drug -drug interaction was confirmed by PK  data from the NEOSPHERE and APHINITY studies.  
 Five studies evaluated the effects of pertuzumab on the PK of co- administered cytotoxic agents, docetaxel, paclitaxel, gemcitabine, capecitabine, carboplatin and erlotinib. There was no evidence of any PK interaction between pertuzumab and any of these agents. The PK of pertuzumab in these studies was comparable to those observed in single- agent studies.  
 Trastuzumab  
 No formal drug interaction studies have been performed. Clinically significant interactions between trastuzumab  and the concomitant medicinal products used in clinical trials h ave not been observed.  9  Effect of trastuzumab on the pharmacokinetics of other antineoplastic agents  
 PK data from studies BO15935 and M77004 in women with HER2- positive metastatic breast cancer  suggested that exposure to paclitaxel and doxorubicin (and their major metabolites 6- α hydroxylpaclitaxel, POH, and doxorubicinol, DOL) was not altered in the presence of trastuzumab (8 mg/kg or 4  mg/kg intravenous  loading dose followed by 6 mg/kg q3w or 2  mg/kg q1w intravenous , respectively). However, trastuzumab  may elevate the overall exposure of one doxorubicin metabolite, (7-deoxy- 13 dihydro -doxorubicinone, D7D). The bioactivity of D7D and the clinical impact of the elevation of this metabolite were unclear.  
 Data from study JP16003, a single -arm study of tra stuzumab (4 mg/kg intravenous  loading dose and 
2 mg/kg intravenous  weekly) and docetaxel (60  mg/m2 intravenous ) in Japanese women with HER2 -positive metastatic breast cancer , suggested that concomitant administration of trastuzumab had no effect on the single dose pharmacokinetics of docetaxel. Study JP19959 was a substudy of BO18255 (To 
 GA) performed in male and female Japanese patients with advanced gastric cancer to study the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine and cisplatin when used with or without trastuz umab. The results of this substudy suggested that the exposure to the bioactive metabolites (e.g. 5 -FU) of capecitabine was not affected by concurrent use of  cisplatin or by concurrent use of cisplatin plus trastuzumab. However, capecitabine itself showed higher concentrations and a longer half -life when combined with trastuzumab. The data also suggested that the pharmacokinetics of cisplatin were not affected by concurrent use of capecitabine or by concurrent use of capecitabine plus trastuzumab.  
 PK data  from Study H4613g/GO01305 in patients with metastatic or locally advanced inoperable HER2 -positive cancer suggested that trastuzumab had no impact on the PK of carboplatin.  
 Effect of antineoplastic agents on trastuzumab pharmacokinetics  
 By comparison of simulated serum trastuzumab concentrations after trastuzumab monotherapy (4 mg/kg loading/2 mg/kg q1w intravenous ) and observed serum concentrations in Japanese women with HER2 -positive metastatic breast cancer (study JP16003) no evidence of a PK effect  of concurrent administration of docetaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab was found. Comparison of PK results from two Phase II studies (BO15935 and M77004) and one Phase III study (H0648g) in which patients were treated concomitantly with trastuzu mab and paclitaxel and two Phase II studies in which trastuzumab was administered as monotherapy (W016229 and MO16982), in women with HER2 -positive MBC indicates that individual and mean trastuzumab trough serum concentrations varied within and across stud ies but there was no clear effect of the concomitant administration of paclitaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab.  
 Comparison of trastuzumab PK data from Study M77004 in which women with HER2 -positive metastatic breast cancer  were treated concomit antly with trastuzumab , paclitaxel and doxorubicin to trastuzumab PK data in studies where trastuzumab was administered as monotherapy (H0649g) or in combination with anthracycline plus cyclophosphamide or paclitaxel (Study H0648g), suggested no effect of doxorubicin and paclitaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab. Pharmacokinetic data from Study H4613g/GO01305 suggested that carboplatin had no impact on the PK of trastuzumab. 
 The administration of concomitant anastrozole did not appear to influence the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab. 
 
