4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Agents that may increase ceritinib plasma concentrations  
 Strong CYP3A inhibitors  In healthy subjects, co -administration of a single 450  mg fasted  ceritinib dose with ketoconazole (200 mg twice daily for 14  days), a strong CYP3A/P -gp inhibitor, resulted in 2.9 -fold and 1.2-fold increase in ceritinib AUC inf and C max, respectively, compared to when ceritinib was given alone. The steady -state AUC of ceritinib at reduced doses after co -administration with ketoconazole 200  mg twice daily for 14  days was predicted by simulations to be similar to the steady -state AUC of ceritinib alone . Concomitant  use of strong CYP3A inhibitors should be avoided during treatment with ceritinib . If it is not possible to avoid concomitant use with strong CYP3A inhibitors  (includ ing, but not limited to, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole and nefazodone ), the dose of ceritinib should be reduce d by approximately one  third, rounded to the nearest multiple of the 150  mg dose strength. After discontinuation of a strong CYP3A inhibitor, ceritinib should be resume d at the  dose that was taken prior to initiating the strong CYP3A inhibitor . 
 P-gp inhibitors  Based on in vitro  data, ceritinib is a substrate of the efflux transporter P -glycoprotein (P -gp). If ceritinib is administered with medicinal products that inhibit P -gp, an increase in ceritinib concentration is likely. Caution should be exercised with concomitant use of P -gp inhibitors and ADRs carefully monitored . 
 Agents that may decrease ceritinib plasma concentrations  
 Strong CYP3A and P -gp inducers  In healthy subjects, co -administration of a single 750  mg fasted ceritinib dose with rifampicin (600  mg daily for 14 days), a strong CYP3A/P -gp inducer, resulted in 70% and 44% decreases in ceritinib AUC inf and C max, respectively, compared to when ceritinib was given alone. Co -administration of ceritinib with strong CYP3A/P -gp inducers decreases ceritinib plasma concentrations. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers should be avoided; this includes, but is not limi ted to, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifabutin, rifampicin and St. John’s Wort ( Hypericum perforatum ). Caution should be exercised with concomi tant use of P -gp inducers.  
 Agents that affect gastric p 
 H  Ceritinib demonstrates p 
 H -dependent solubility and becomes poorly soluble as p 
 H increases in vitro . Acid reducing agents (e.g., proton pump inhibitors, H 2-receptor antagonists, antacids) can alter the solubility of ceritinib and reduce its bioavailability. Co -administration of a single 750  mg fasted ceritinib dose with a proton pump inhibitor (esomeprazole) 40  mg daily for 6  days in healthy, fasting subjects decreased ceritinib AUC by 76% and C max by 79%. The drug -drug interaction study was designed to obse rve the impact of proton pump inhibitor in the worst scenario, but in clinical use the impact of proton pump inhibitor on ceritinib exposure appears to be less pronounced. A dedicated study to evaluate the effect of gastric acid -reducing agents on the bioavailability of ceritinib under steady state has not been conducted.  Caution is advised with concomitant use of proton pump inhibitors, as exposure of ceritinib may be reduced. There is no data with concomitant use of H 2 blockers or antacids. However, the r isk for a clinically relevant decrease in bioavailability of ceritinib is possibly lower with concomitant use of H 2 blockers if they are administered 10  hours before or 
2 hours after the ceritinib dose, and with antacids if they are administered 2  hours before or 2  hours after the ceritinib dose.  
 9 
 Agents whose plasma concentration may be altered by ceritinib  
 CYP3A and CYP2C9 substrates  Based on in vitro  data, ceritinib competitively inhibits the metabolism of a CYP3A substrate, midazolam, and a CYP2C9 substrate, diclofenac. Time -dependent inhibition of CYP3A was also observed.  
 Ceritinib has been classified in vivo  as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and has the potential to interact with medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A, which may lead to increased serum concentrations of the other product. Co -administration of a single dose of midazolam (a sensitive CYP3A  substrate) following 3  weeks of ceritinib dosing in patients (750  mg daily fasted) increased the midazolam  AUC inf (90% CI) by 5.4 -fold (4.6, 6.3) compared to midazolam alone. Co-administration of ceritinib with  substra tes primarily metabolised by CYP3A or  CYP3A substrates known to have narrow therapeutic indices (e.g. alfuzosin, amiodarone, cisapride, ciclosporin, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, pimozide, quetiapine, quinidine, lovastatin, simvastatin, sildenafil, midazolam, triazolam, tacrolimus, alfentanil and sirolimus) should be avoided  and alternative medicinal products that are less sensitive to CYP3A4 inhibition should be used if possible. If unavoidable, dose reduction for co -administered medicinal produ cts that are CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic indices should be considered.  
 Ceritinib has been classified in vivo  as a weak CYP2C9 inhibitor. Co -administration of a single dose of warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate) following 3  weeks of ceritinib dosing in patients (750  mg daily fasted) increased the S -warfarin  AUC inf (90% CI) by 54% (36%, 75% ) compared to warfarin alone. Co-administration of ceritinib with substrates primarily metabolised by CYP2C9 or  CYP2C9 substrates known to have narrow therapeutic indices (e.g. phenytoin and warfarin) should be avoided.  If unavoidable, dose reduction for co -administered medicinal products that are CYP2C9 substrates with narrow therapeutic indices should be considered. Increasing the frequency of international normalised ratio (INR) monitoring may be considered if co -admi nistration with w arfarin is unavoidable.  
 CYP2A6 and CYP2E1 substrates  Based on in vitro  data, ceritinib also inhibits CYP2A6 and CYP2E1 at clinically relevant concentrations. Therefore, ceritinib may have the potential to increase plasma concentrations of co-administered medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by these enzymes. Caution should be exercised with concomitant use of CYP2A6 and CYP2E1 substrates and ADRs carefully monitored . 
 A risk for induction of other PXR regulated enzymes apart from CYP3A4 cannot be completely excluded. The effectiveness of concomitant administration of oral contraceptives may be reduced.  
 Agents that are substrates of transporters  
 Based on in vitro  data, ceritinib does not inhibit apical efflux transporter  MRP2, hepatic uptake transporters OATP1B1 or OATP1B3, renal organic anion uptake transporters OAT1 and OAT3, or the organic cation uptake transporters OCT1 or OCT2 at clinically relevant concentrations. Therefore, clinical drug -drug interactions as a result of ceritinib -mediated inhibition of substrates for these transporters are unlikely to occur.  Based on in vitro  data, ceritinib is predicted to inhibit intestinal P -gp and BCRP at clinically relevant concentrations. Therefore, ceritinib may have the potential to increase plasma concentrations of co -administered medicinal products transported by these proteins. Caution should be exercised with concomitant use of BCRP substrates (e.g. rosuvastatin, topotecan, sulfasalazine) and P -gp substrates (digoxin, dabigatran, colchicine, pravastatin) and ADRs  carefully monitored.  
 10 
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 In clinical studies, QT prolongation was observed with ceritinib. Therefore, ceritinib should be used with caution in patients who have or may develop prolongation of the QT interval, including those patients taking anti -arrhythmic medicinal products such as class  I (e.g. quinidine, procainamide, disopyramide) or class  III (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide) anti -arrhythmics or other medicinal products that may lead to QT prolongation such as domperidone, droperidol, chloroquine, halofantrine,  clarithromycin, haloperidol, methadone, cisapride and moxifloxacin. Monitoring of the QT interval is indicated in the event of combinations of such medicinal products (see sections  4.2 and 
4.4). 
 Food/drink interactions  
 Ceritinib should be taken with food . The bioavailability of ceritinib is increased in the presence of food.  
 For patients who develop a concurrent medical condition and are unable to take ceritinib with food, ceritinib can be taken on an empty stomach as the alternate continued treatment regimen, in which no food should be eaten for at least two hours before and one hour after the dose. Patients should not alternate between fasted and fed dosing. Dose must be adjusted pr operly, i.e for patients treated with 
450 mg or 300  mg with food, the dose should be increased to 750  mg or 450  mg taken on an empty stomach, resp ectively (see section  5.2) and for patients treated with 150  mg with food treatment should be discontinued. For subsequent dose adjustment and management recommendations for ADRs, please follow table  1 (see section  4.2). The maximum allowable dose under fasted condition is 
750 mg (see section  5.2). 
 Patients should be instructed to avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice as they may inhibit CYP3A in the gut wall and may increase the bioavailability of ceritinib.  
 
