4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 In vitro  studies indicate that sotorasib is metaboli sed by cytochrome P450  (CYP)  2C8, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5, and is a substrate of P -glycoprotein (P -gp). Sotorasib was an inducer of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 in vitro . Sotorasib is an in vitro  inhibitor of CYP2C8, CYP2D6, and CYP3A. In vitro  studies indicate that sotorasib is an inhibitor of human organic anion transpor ter (OAT) 1/3, OATP1B1, Breast Cancer Resistance Protein ( BCRP ) and P -gp. 
 Effect s of other medicinal products on s otorasib  
 Acid-reducing agents  Co-administration of sotorasib with a PPI (omeprazole ) or an H2 receptor antagonist  (famotidine ) led to a decrease  in sotorasib concentrations.  
 Under fed conditions (standard -calorie moderate -fat meals), co -administration of multiple doses of omeprazole with a single dose of 960  mg sotorasib decreased sotorasib Cmax by 65% and AUC by 57%. Co -administration of a single dose of famotidine given 10  hours prior and 2  hours after a single dose of 960  mg sotorasib decreased sotorasib Cmax by 35% and AUC by  38%. 
 Under fasted conditions, co -administration of multiple doses of omeprazole with a single dose of 
960 mg sotorasib decreased sotorasib C max by 57% and AUC by  42%. Under fasted conditions, co-administration of repeat doses of omeprazole with a single dose of 960  mg sotorasib and 240  m 
 L of an acidic beverage (non -diet cola) decreased sotorasib  Cmax by 32% and AUC by 23%. The clinical relevance of the decreased sotorasib exposure when co -administered with omeprazole and cola is unclear and efficacy might be reduced.  
 If co-administration of LUMYKRAS with an acid -reducing agent (such as a PPI or an H 2 receptor antagonist) is required, LUMYKRAS should be taken with an acidic beverage (such as cola). Alternatively, LUMYKRAS should be taken 4  hours before or 10  hours after administration of a local antacid.  
 CYP3A4 inhibitors  Co-administration of multiple  dose itraconazole (a strong CYP3A4 and P -gp inhibitor) did not increase sotorasib exposures to a clinically significant extent. No dose adjustment of LUMYKRAS  is recommended when co -administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors.  
 Strong CYP3A 4 inducers  Co-administration of sotorasib with multiple doses of a strong CYP3A 4 inducer (rifamp icin) decreased sotorasib Cmax by 35% and AUC by  51%. Co-administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers  (e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane, phenytoin and St. John’s wort)  with LUMYKRAS  is not recommended because they may decrease sotorasib exposure . 
 Effect of sotorasib on other medicinal products  
 CYP3A4 substrates  Sotorasib is a moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Co -administration of sotorasib with CYP3A4 substrates led to a decrease in their plasma concentrations, which may reduce the efficacy of these substrates.  
 Co-administration of sotorasib with midazolam (a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate) decreased midazolam Cmax by 48% and AUC by  53%. 
 Avoid co -administration of LUMYKRAS  with CYP3A4 substrates with narrow therapeutic ind ices, including but not limited to alfentanil, ciclosporin, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, hormonal contraceptives, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus and tacrolimus . If co -administration cannot be avoided, adjust the CYP3A4 substrate dos e in accordance with the current summary of product characteristics . 
 7 CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrates  In vitro  data indicated that sotorasib may have the potential to induce CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19; the clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. When sotorasib is co -administered with medicinal products metaboli sed by these enzymes, appropriate monitoring is recommended.  
 CYP2D6 substrates  In vitro  data indicated that sotorasib may have the potential to inhibit CYP2D6, the clinical relevance of these findings  is unknown. When LUMYKRAS is co -administered with CYP2D6 substrates (e.g. flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol), appropriate monitoring is recommended.  
 BCRP substrates  LUMYKRAS is a weak BCRP inhibitor. Co -administration of LUMYKRAS with a BCRP substrate led to an increase in the plasma concentrations of the BCRP substrate, which may increase the effect of the substrate.  
 Co-administration of LUMYKRAS with rosuvast atin (a BCRP substrate) increased the rosuvastatin Cmax by 70% and AUC by 34%.  
 When LUMYKRAS is co-administered with  a BCRP substrate , including but not limited to  lapatinib, methotrexate, mitoxantrone,  rosuvastatin and  topotecan , monitor for adverse reactions of the BCRP substrate and reduce the BCRP substrate dose in accordance with its current summary of product characteristics.  
 Effect of sotorasib on P -gp substrates  Co-administration of sotorasib with digoxin  (a P-glycoprotein [P -gp] substrate ) increased digoxin Cmax by 1.9 -fold and AUC inf by 1.2 -fold of digoxin administered alone . Co-administration of LUMYKRAS  with P -gp substrates with narrow therapeutic indices is not recommended. If co -administration cannot be avoided, adjust the P -gp substrate dosage in accordance with the current summary of product characteristics.  
 
