4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
 Potential interactions affecting olanzapine  Since olanzapine is metabolised by  CYP1A2, substances that can sp ecifical ly induce or inhibit this isoenzyme may affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine.  
 Induction of CYP1A2 The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking and carbamazepine, which may lead to reduced olanzapine c oncentration s. Only sli ght to moder ate increase in olanzapine clearance has been observed. The clinical consequences are likely to be limited, but clinical monitoring is recommended and an increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see sec tion 4.2). 
 Inhibition of CYP1A2 Fluvox amin e, a specific CYP1A2 inhibitor, has been shown to significantly inhibit the metabolism of olanzapine. The mean increase in olanzapine C max following fluvoxamine was 54 % in female non-smokers and 77 % in male smok ers. The mea n increase i n olanzapin e AUC wa s 52 % and 108 % respectively. A lower starting dose of olanzapine should be considered in patients who are using fluvoxamine or any other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as ciprofloxacin. A decrease in the dose of olanzapine should be considere d if tr eatm ent with  an inhibitor of CYP1A2 is initiated. 
 Decreased bioavailability  Activated charcoal reduces the bioavailability of oral  olanzapine by 50 to 60 % and should be taken at least 2 hours before or after olanzapine.  
 Fluoxetine (a CYP2D6 inhibitor), single d oses of antacid (aluminium, magnesium) or cimetidine have not been found to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
 Potential for olanzapine to affect other medicinal products  Olanzapine may antagonise the effects of direc t and indire ct dopamine agonists. 
 Olanzapine does not inhibit the main CYP450 isoenzymes in vitro  (e.g. 1A2, 2D6, 2C9, 2C19, 3A4). Thus no particular interaction is expected as verified through in vivo  studies where no inhibition of metabolism of the foll owing ac tive substan ces was found: tricyclic antidepressant (representing mostly CYP2D6 pathway), warfarin (CYP2C9), theophylline (CYP1A2) or diazepam (CYP3A4 and 2C19).   8  Olanzapine showed no interaction when co- administered with li thium or bip eriden. 
 Therapeuti c mo nitoring of valproate plasma levels did not indicate that valproate dosage adjustment is required after the introduction of concomitant olanzapine. 
 General CNS activity  Caution should be exercised in patients who consume alcohol or receive med icinal p roducts that  can cause central nervous system depression.  
 The concomitant use of olanzapine with anti- Parkinsonian medicinal products in patients with Parkinson's disease and dementia is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
 QTc interval  Caution sho uld be used if olan zapine is being administered concomitantly with medicinal products known to increase QTc interval (see section 4.4). 
 
