4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interaction studies have only been p erformed in adults.  8  Caution should be exercised in patients who receive medicinal products tha t can induce hypotension or sedation.   Potential interactions affecting olanzapine  Since olanzapine is metabolised by CYP1A2, substances that can specifically induce or inhibit this isoenzyme may affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine.   Induction of C YP1A2  The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking and carbamazepine, which may lead to reduced olanzapine concentrations. Only slight to moderate incr ease in olanzapine clearance has been observed. The clinical consequences are likely to be limited, but clinical monitoring is recommended and an increase of olanzapine dose may be considered if necessary (see section 4.2).  
 Inhibition of CYP1A2  Fluvoxamine, a specific CYP1A2 inhibitor, has been shown to significa ntly inhibit the metabolism of olanz apine. The mean increase in  olanzapine C max following fluvoxamine was 54 % in female non-smokers and 77 % in male smokers. The mean increase in olanzapine AUC was 52 % and 108 % respectively. A lower starting dose of ola nzapine should be considered  in patients who are using fluvoxamine or any other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as ciprofloxacin. A decrease in the dose of olanzapine should be considered if treatment with an inhibitor of CYP1A2 is initiated. 
 Fluoxetine (a CYP2D6 inhibitor), single doses of antacid  (aluminium, magnesium) or cimetidine have not been found to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine.  Potential for olanzapine to affect other medicinal products Olanzapine may antagonise the effects of direct and indirect dopamine agonist s. 
 Olanzapine does not inhibit the main CYP450 isoenzymes in vitro  (e.g. 1A2, 2D6, 2C9, 2C19, 3A4). Thus no particular interaction is expected as verified through in vivo  studies where no inhibition of metabolism of the  following active substances was found: tricyclic antidepressan t (representing mostly CYP2D6 pathway), warfarin (CYP2C9), theophylline (CYP1A2) or diazepam (CYP3A4 and 2C19).  
 Olanzapine showed no interaction when co- administered with lithium or biperiden . 
 Therapeutic monitoring of  valproa te plasma levels did not in dicate that valproate dosage adjustment is required after the introduction of concomitant olanzapine.  General CNS activity  Caution should be exercised in patients who consume alcohol or receive medicinal products that ca n cause central nervous system depr ession. 
 The concomitant use of olanzapine with anti- Parkinsonian medicinal products in patients with Parkinson's disease and dementia is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
 QTc interval  Cauti on should be used if olanzapi ne is b eing administered concomita ntly with medicinal products known to increase QTc interval (see section 4.4).  