4.5 and 5.1). When starting therapy in patients with a documented history of lamivudine-resistant HBV, combination use of entecavir plus a second antiviral agent (which does not share cross-resistance with either lamivudine or entecavir) should be considered in preference to entecavir monotherapy. 
 Pre-existing lamivudine-resistant HBV is associated with an increased risk for subsequent entecavir resistance regardless of the degree of liver disease; in patients with decompensated liver disease, virologic breakthrough may be associated with serious clinical complications of the underlying liver disease. Therefore, in patients with both decompensated liver disease and lamivudine-resistant HBV, combination use of entecavir plus a second antiviral agent (which does not share cross-resistance with either lamivudine or entecavir) should be considered in preference to entecavir monotherapy. 
 Paediatric population: A lower rate of virologic response (HBV DNA < 50 IU/ml) was observed in paediatric patients with baseline HBV DNA ≥ 8.0 log10 IU/ml (see section 5.1). Entecavir should be used in these patients only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the child (e.g. resistance). Since some paediatric patients may require long-term or even lifetime management of chronic active hepatitis B, consideration should be given to the impact of entecavir on future treatment options. 
 Liver transplant recipients:  renal function should be carefully evaluated before and during entecavir therapy in liver transplant recipients receiving cyclosporine or tacrolimus (see section 5.2). 
 Co-infection with hepatitis C or D:  there are no data on the efficacy of entecavir in patients co-infected with hepatitis C or D virus. 
 Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/HBV co-infected patients not receiving concomitant antiretroviral therapy:  entecavir has not been evaluated in HIV/HBV co-infected patients not concurrently receiving effective HIV treatment. Emergence of HIV resistance has been observed when entecavir was used to treat chronic hepatitis B infection in patients with HIV infection not receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) (see section 5.1). Therefore, therapy with entecavir should not be used for HIV/HBV co-infected patients who are not receiving HAART. Entecavir has not been studied as a treatment for HIV infection and is not recommended for this use. 
 HIV/HBV co-infected patients receiving concomitant antiretroviral therapy : entecavir has been studied in 68 adults with HIV/HBV co-infection receiving a lamivudine-containing HAART regimen (see section 5.1). No data are available on the efficacy of entecavir in HBe 
 Ag-negative patients co-infected with HIV. There are limited data on patients co-infected with HIV who have low CD4 cell counts (< 200 cells/mm3). 
 General:  patients should be advised that therapy with entecavir has not been proven to reduce the risk of transmission of HBV and therefore appropriate precautions should still be taken. 
 Lactose:  this medicinal product contains 120.5 mg of lactose in each 0.5 mg daily dose or 241 mg of lactose in each 1 mg daily dose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, the Lapp lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine. A lactose-free Baraclude oral solution is available for these individuals. 
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Since entecavir is predominantly eliminated by the kidney (see section 5.2), coadministration with medicinal products that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase serum concentrations of either medicinal product. Apart from lamivudine, adefovir dipivoxil and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the effects of coadministration of entecavir with medicinal products that  7are excreted renally or affect renal function have not been evaluated. Patients should be monitored closely for adverse reactions when entecavir is coadministered with such medicinal products. 
 No pharmacokinetic interactions between entecavir and lamivudine, adefovir or tenofovir were observed. 
 Entecavir is not a substrate, an inducer or an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes (see section 5.2). Therefore CYP450 mediated drug interactions are unlikely to occur with entecavir. 
 Paediatric population Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
 
