4.5 Interaction with other medi cinal products  and other forms of in teraction 
 Formal interaction studies have only been performed in  adults. 
 Pharmacod ynamic interact ions 
 Conc omitan t treatment with  levetiracetam  In the clini cal studies,  although the numbers were limited,  there was no o bserved benefi t of brivaracetam vers us placebo in p atients taking levetiracetam concurrently. No addi tional safety or tolerability conc ern was observed (see section 5. 1). 
 Interaction with alcoh ol In a pharm acokinetic and pharmacodynamic int eraction study between brivar acetam 200  mg single dose and ethanol  0.6 g/L contin uous infusion in healthy subjects, there was no pharma cokinetic interaction, but brivaracetam approxi mately doubled the effect o f alcohol on psychomotor function, attention an d memory. Intak e of brivaracetam with alcohol is no t recommended.  
 Pharmacokineti c interactions 
 Effects of other medicinal prod ucts on the pharmacoki netics of brivar acetam  In vitro data suggest that brivaracetam has a low interaction potential. The main d isposition path way of brivara cetam is by CYP -independent hydrolysi s. A second dis position pathway involves hydroxyla tion mediate d by CYP2C19 (see section 5.2).  
 Brivaracetam plasma concentrations may increase  when coadministered with CYP2C19  strong inhibitors (e.g. fluconazole, fluvo xamine), but the risk of a clinically  relevant CYP2C19-mediated interaction is considered to be low. Limited clinical dat a are available implying that co administration of cannabidi ol may increase  the plasma  exposure of brivarac etam, possibly thro ugh CYP2C19 inhibition, but the clinical relevance is uncertai n. 
 Rifampici n In healthy subjects,  coadministration with the strong enzyme inducer rifampicin (600 mg/day for 
5 days), decreased brivaracetam area under the plasma concentrat ion curve (AUC) by 
45 %. Prescribers should conside r adjusting the brivaracetam d ose in patients starting or ending treatment with rifampicin.  
 Stron g enzyme i nducin g AEDs Brivaracetam plasma concentrations a re decreased wh en coadministered with strong en zyme inducing AEDs (carbamazepine, phenobarbital, p henytoin) but no dose adjustme nt is required (see table 1).  
 7 Other enzyme inducers  Other strong en zyme inducers (such as St John´s wort ( Hypericum perforatum )) may also dec rease the systemic exposure of b rivaracetam. Therefore, starting or ending treatmen t with St John’s wort should be done with caution. 
 Effects of br ivaracetam on other medicinal prod ucts Brivaracetam given 50 or 150 mg/day did not affect the  AUC of midazol am (metabolised by CYP3A4) . The risk of clinically relevant CYP3A4 interactions is considered to be low.  
 In vitr o studies have shown that brivarace tam exhibits little or no inhibiti on of CYP450 isoforms except for CYP2C19. Brivaracetam may increase plasma  concentrations of medicinal pro ducts metabolised b y CYP2C19 (e.g. lanzoprazole, om eprazole, diazepam). When test ed in vitro brivaracetam did not in duce CYP1A1/2 but induced CYP3A4 a nd CYP2B6. No CYP3A4 induction was found in vivo (see midaz olam above). CY P2B6 induction has not been inve stigated in vivo and brivaracetam may decrease plas ma concentrations of medicinal  products metabolised by CYP2B6 (e. g. efavirenz). In vitro interactio n studies to determine the potential inhibitory effects on transporters concluded that there were no clini cally relevant effe cts, except for OAT3. In vitro, Brivaracetam inhibits OAT3 wit h a half maximal inhibitory concent ration 42-fold higher than the C max at the highest clinical dose. Brivaracetam 200mg/day may increase plasma  concentrations of medicinal pro ducts transported b y OAT3. 
 Antiepileptic drugs  
 Potential interactions between b rivaracetam (50 mg/day to 200  mg/day) and other AEDs were investigate d in a pooled analysis of plasma drug concentrations from a ll phase 2 -3 studies, in a population pharmacok inetic analysis of placebo-controlled phase 2 -3 clinical studies, and in dedicated drug-drug interaction studies (for the fol lowing AEDs: carbamazepin e, lamotrigine, phenytoin an d topiramate). The effect of the interac tions on the pla sma concentration is summarised in t able 1 (increase is indicated as “↑” and decre ase as “↓”, area under the pla sma concentration versus time curve as “AUC”, maximum observ ed concentration as Cmax).  
 Table 1: Pharmacokinetic interactions b etween brivarace tam and other AEDs AED coadministere d Influence of AED on brivaracetam plasma concentration  Influence of brivaracetam on AED plasma concentration  Carbamazepine  AUC 29 % ↓ Cmax 13 % ↓ No dose adjustment required  Carbamazepine - None Carbamazepine-epoxide ↑  (See below)  No dose adjustment req uired. Clobazam No data available  None Clonazepam  No data available  None Lacosamide  No data available  None  Lamotrigine  None  None  Levetiracetam None  None  Oxcarbazepine  None  None (monohydroxy d erivative, MHD) Phenobarbital  AUC 19 % ↓ No dose ad justment required None  Phenytoin  AUC 21 % ↓ No dose adjustment required  None a AUC 20% ↑ a Cmax 20% ↑ Pregabalin  No data available  None  Topiramate None  None  Valproic acid  None  None  Zonisamide  No data available  None  a based on a study involving  the administration of a supratherapeutic dose of 400 mg/day brivaracetam.  
 8 Carbamazepine  Brivaracetam is a moderate reversible inhibit or of epoxide hydrolase resulting in an increased concentration of c arbamazepine epoxide, an active  metabolite of carbam azepine. In controlled clinical studies, the carbamazepine epoxide plasma concentration increased by a mean of 37  %, 62 % and 
98 % with little variability at brivaracetam doses of 50  mg/day, 100  mg/day and 200  mg/day respectively . No safety ris ks were observed. The re was no additive effect of brivaracetam and valproate on the AUC of carbamazepine epoxide.  
 Oral contraceptives  
 Co-administr ation of brivaracetam (100  mg/day) with an oral contraceptive containing ethi nylestradiol (0.03 mg) and levo norgestrel (0.15  mg) did not influence the pharmacokinetics of either substance. When brivaracetam was coadministered at a dose of 400  mg/day (twice  the recommended maximum daily dose) with an oral contraceptive containing et hinylestradiol (0.03  mg) and le vonorgestrel (0.15 mg), a reduction in oestrogen and progestin AUCs of 27  % and 23  %, respectively, was observed without impact on suppression of ov ulation. There was generally no change in the concentration -time profiles of the endogenous markers estradio l, progesterone, lute inizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG).  
 
