4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 5 A number of medicinal products are known to influence repaglinide metabolism. Possible interactions should therefore be taken into account by the physician:  
 In vitro  data indicate that repaglinide is metabolised predominantly by CYP2C8, but also by CYP3A4. Clinical data in healthy volunteers support CYP2C8 as being the most important enzyme involved in repaglinide metabolism with CYP3A4 playing a minor role, but the r elative contribution of CYP3A4 can be increased if CYP2C8 is inhibited. Consequently metabolism, and by that clearance of repaglinide, may be altered by substances which influence these cytochrome P -450 enzymes via inhibition or induction. Special care should be taken when inhibitors of both CYP2C8 and 3A4 are co-administered simultaneously with repaglinide.  
 Based on in vitro  data, repaglinide appears to be a substrate for active hepatic uptake (organic anion transporting protein OATP1B1). Substances that inhibit OATP1B1 may likewise have the potential to increase plasma concentrations of repaglinide, as has been sho wn for ciclosporin (see below).  
 The following substances may enhance and/or prolong the hypoglycaemic effect of repaglinide: Gemfibrozil, clar ithromycin, itraconazole, ketoconazole , trimethoprim, ciclosporin, deferasirox, clopidogrel, other antidiabetic substances, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI), non selective beta blocking substances, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) -inhibitors, salicylates, NSAIDs, octreotide, alcohol, and anabolic steroids.  
 Co-admi nistration of gemfibrozil (600 mg twice daily), an inhibitor of CYP2C8, and repaglinide (a single dose of 0.25  mg) increased the repaglinide AUC 8.1 -fold and C max 2.4-fold in healthy volunteers. H alf-life was prolonged from 1.3 hr to 3.7 hr, resulting in possibly enhanced and prolonged blood glucose -lowering effect of repaglinide, and plasma repaglinide concentra tion at 7  hr was increased 28.6 -fold by gemfibrozil. The concomitant use of gemfibrozil and repaglinide is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Co-admi nistration of trimethoprim (160 mg twice daily), a moderate CYP2C8 inhibitor, and repaglinide (a single dose of 0.25 mg) increased the repaglinide AUC, C max and t ½ (1.6-fold, 1.4-fold and 1.2-fold respectively) with no statistically significant effects on the blood glucose levels. This lack of pharmacodynamic effect was observed with a sub -therapeutic dose of repaglinide. Since the safety profile of this combination has not been est ablished with dosages higher than 0.25 mg for repaglinide and 320 mg for trimethoprim, the concomitant use of trimethoprim with repaglinide should be avoided. If concomitant use is necessary, careful monitoring of blood glucose and close clinical monitorin g should be performed (see section 4.4).  
 Rifampicin, a potent inducer of CYP3A4, but also CYP2C8, acts both as an inducer and inhibitor of the metabolism of repaglinide. Seven days pre -treatment with rifampicin (600  mg), followed by co-administration of repaglinide (a single dose of 4 mg) at day seven resulted in a 50% lower AUC (effect of a combined induction and inhibition) . When repaglinide was given 24 hours after the last rifampicin dose, an 80% reduction of the repaglinide AUC was observed (effect of  induction alone).  Concomitant use of rifampicin and repaglinide might therefore induce a need for repaglinide dose adjustment which should be based on carefully monitored blood glucose concentrations at both initiation of rifampicin treatment (acute inhib ition), following dosing (mixed inhibition and induction), withdrawal (induction alone) and up to approximately two weeks after withdrawal of rifampicin where the inductive effect of rifampicin is no longer present. It cannot be excluded that other inducer s, e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, St John ’s wort, ma y have a similar effect.  
 The effect of ketoconazole, a prototype of potent and competitive inhibitors of CYP3A4, on the pharmacokinetics of repaglinide has been studied in healthy sub jects. Co -administration of 200  mg ketoconazole increased the repaglinide (AUC and Cmax) by 1.2-fold with profiles of blood glucose concentrations altered by less than 8% when administered co ncomitantly (a single dose of 4 mg 6 repagli nide). Co -administratio n of 100 mg itraconazole, an inhibitor of CYP3A4, has also been studied in healthy volunteer s, and increased the AUC by 1.4 -fold. No significant effect on the glucose level in healthy volunteers was observed. In an interaction study in healthy volunteers, co-administration of 250  mg clarithromycin, a potent mechanism -based inhibitor of CYP3A4, slightly increased the repaglinide (AUC) by 1.4- fold and C max by 1.7 -fold and increased the mean incremen tal AUC of serum insulin by 1.5-fold and t he maximum concentr ation by 1.6 -fold. The exact mechanism of this interaction is not clear . 
 In a study conducted in healthy volunteers, the concomitant administration of repaglinide (a single dose of 0.25 mg) and ci closporin (repeated dose at 100  mg) increased repaglinide AUC and C max about 2.5-fold and 1.8-fold respectively. Since the interaction has not been established with dosages higher than 0.25 mg for repaglinide, the concomitant use of ciclosporin with repaglinide should be avoided. If the combination appears necessary, careful clinical and blood glucose monitoring should be performed (see section 4.4).  
 In an interaction study with healthy volunteers, co -administration of deferasirox (30 mg/kg/day, 
4 days), a moderate inhibitor of CYP2C8 and CYP3A4, and repaglinide ( single dose, 0.5 mg) resulted in an increase in repaglinide systemic exposure (AUC) to 2.3 -fold (90% CI [2.03-2.63]) of control, a 
1.6-fold (90% CI [1.42 -1.84]) increase in Cmax, and a small, significant decrease in blood glucose values. Since the interact ion has not been established with dosages higher than 0.5 mg for repaglinide, the concomitant use of deferasirox with repaglinide should be avoided. If the combination appears necessary, careful clinical and blood glucose monitoring should be performed (se e section 4.4).  
 In an interaction study with healthy volunteers, co -administration of clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose), a CYP2C8 inhibitor, increased repaglinide exposure (AUC0 –∞) 5.1 -fold and continued administration (75 mg daily dose) increased repaglinide exposure (AUC0 –∞) 3.9 -fold. A small, significant decrease in blood glucose values was observed. Since the safety profile of the co -treatment has not been established in these patients, the concomitant use of clopidogrel and repaglinide should be avoided. If concomitant use is necessary, careful monitoring of blood glucose and close clinical monitoring should be performed (see section 4.4).  
 β-blocking medicinal products may mask  the symptoms of hypoglycaemia.  
 Co-administration of cimetidine, nifedipine, oestrogen, or simvastatin with repaglinide, all CYP3A4 substrates, did not significantly alter the pharmacokin etic parameters of repaglinide.  
 Repaglinide had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetic properties of digoxin, theophylline or warfarin at steady state, when administered to healthy volunteers. Dosage adjustment of these compounds when co -administered with repaglinide is the refore not necessary.  
 The following substances may reduce the hypog lycaemic effect of repaglinide:  Oral contraceptives, rifampicin, barbiturates, carbamazepine, thiazides, corticosteroids, danazol, thyroid  hormones and sympathomimetics.  
 When these medications are administered to or withdrawn from a patient receiving repaglinide, the patient should be observed closely for changes in glycaemic control.  
 When repaglinide is used together with other medicinal products that are mainly secreted by the bile, like repaglinide, any potential interaction should be considered.  
 Paediatric population  
 No interaction studies have been performed in children and adolescents.  
 
