4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Monoamine o xidase inhibitors (MAOIs): D ue to the risk of serotonin syndrome, duloxetine should not be used in combination with non- selective irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within at least 14 days of discontinuing treatment with an MAOI. Based on the half -life of duloxetine, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping Duloxetine Lilly  before starting an MAOI  (see section 
4.3). 
 The concomitant use of Duloxetine Lilly  with selective, reversible MAOIs, like moclobemide, is not recommended (see section 4.4).  The antibiotic linezolid is a reversible non -selective MAOI and should not be given to patients treated w ith Duloxetine Lilly  (see section 4.4).  
 Inhibitors of CYP 1A2: B ecause CYP1A2 is involved in duloxetine metabolism, concomitant use of duloxetine with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 is likely to result in higher concentrations of duloxetine. Fluvoxamine (100 mg once daily), a potent inhibitor of CYP1A2, decreased the apparent plasma clearance of duloxetine by about 77% and increased AUCo-t 6-fold. Therefore Duloxetine Lilly should not be administered in combination with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 like fluvoxamine (see section 4.3). 
 CNS medicinal products : The risk of using duloxetine in combination with other CNS -active medicinal products has not been systematically evalua ted, except in the cases described in this section. Consequently, caution is advised when Duloxetine Lilly  is taken in combination with other centrally acting medicinal products or substances , including alcohol and sedative medicinal products (e.g. benzodi azepines, morphinomimetics, antipsychotics, phenobarbital, sedative antihistamines).  
 Serotonergic agents : In rare cases, serotonin syndrome has been reported in patients using SSRIs /SNRIs  concomitantly with serotonergic agents. Caution is advisable if Dul oxetine Lilly is used concomitantly with serotonergic  agents like SSRIs,  SNRIs,  tricyclic  antidepressants like clomipramine or amitriptyline, MAOIs like moclobemide or linezolid,  St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) or triptans, tramadol, pethidine  and tryptophan (see section 4.4) . 
  8 Effect of duloxetine on other medicinal products  Medicinal products metabolised by CYP1A2: The pharmacokinetics of theophylline, a CYP1A2 substrate, were not significantly affected by co- administration with duloxetine (60 mg twice daily).  
  Medicinal products metabolised by CYP2D6:  Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. When duloxetine was administered at a dose of 60 mg twice daily with a single dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3- fold. The co- administration of duloxetine (40 mg twice daily) increases steady state AUC of tolterodine (2 mg twice daily) by 71 %, but does not affect the pharmacokinetics of its active 5 -hydroxyl metabolite and no dosage adjustment is recommended. Caution is advised if Duloxetine Lilly  is co-administered with medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2D6 (risperidone, tricyclic antidepressants [TCAs] such as nortriptyline, amitriptyline, and imipramine) particularly if they have a narrow therapeutic index (such as flecainide, propafenone and  metoprolol). 
 Oral contraceptives and other steroidal agents: R esults of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not induce the catalytic activity of CYP3A. Specific in vivo  drug interaction studies have not been performed.  
 Anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents: Caution should be exercised when duloxetine is combined with or al anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents due to a potential increased risk of bleeding  attributable to a pharmacodynamic interaction . Furthermore, increases in INR values have been reported when duloxetine was co- administered to patients treated with warfa rin. However, concomitant administration of duloxetine with warfarin under steady state conditions, in healthy volunteers, as part of a clinical pharmacology study, did not result in a clinically significant change in INR from baseline or in the pharmacoki netics of R - or S -warfarin.  
 Effects of other medicinal products on duloxetine  Antacids and H
2 antagonists: C o-administration of duloxetine with aluminium-  and magnesium -containing antacids or duloxetine with famotidine had no significant effect on the rat e or extent of duloxetine absorption after administration of a 40 mg oral dose.  
 Inducers of CYP1A2: Population pharmacokinetic analyses have shown that smokers have almost 50% lower plasma concentrations of duloxetine compared with non- smokers.  
 
