4.5 Interaction with other medicinal pro ducts and other forms of interaction  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 Concomitant use not recommended  
 QT prolonging medicinal products  
- Cardiovascular QT prolonging medici nal products (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide, bepridi l, sotalol, ibutilide, amiodarone).  
- Non cardiovascular QT prolonging medicinal products (e.g. pimozide, ziprasidone, sertindole, mefloquine, halofantrine, pentamidine, cisapride, intravenous erythromycin).  The concomitant use of cardiovascular and non card iovascular QT prolonging medicinal products with ivabradine should be avoided since QT prolongation may be exacerbated by heart rate reduction. If the combination appears necessary, close cardiac monitorin g is needed (see section 4.4).  
 Concomitant use wit h precaution  
 Potassium -depleting diuretics (thiazide diuretics and loop diuretics)  7 Hypokalemia can increase the risk of arrhythmia. As ivabradine may cause bradycardia, the resulting combination of hypoka lemia and bradycardia is a predisposing factor t o the onset of severe arrhythmias, esp ecially in patients with long QT syndrome, whether congenital or substance -induced.  
 Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 Ivabradine is metabolised  by CYP3A4 only and it is a very weak inhibitor of this cytochrome. Ivabradine was shown not to influence the metabo lism and plasma concentrations of other CYP3A4 substrates (mild, moderate and strong inhibitors) . CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers are liable to interact with ivabradine and influence its me tabolism and pharmacokinetics to a clinically significant extent. Interaction studies have established that CYP3A4 inhibitors increase ivabradine plasma concentrations, while inducers decrease them.  Increased plasma concentrations of ivabradine may be associated with the risk of excessive bradycardia (see section 4.4).  
 Contraindication of concomitant use  
 Potent CYP3A4 inhibitors  The concomitant use of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as azole antifungals (ketoconazole, itracon azole), macrolide ant ibiotics (clarithromycin, erythromycin per os , josamycin, telithromycin), HIV p rotease inhibitors (nelfinavir, ritonavir) and nefazodone is contraindicated (see section 4.3). The potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ketoconazole (200 mg once daily ) and josamycin (1 g twice daily) increased ivabradine mean plasma exposure by 7 to 8 fold.  
 Moderat e CYP3A4 inhibitors  Specific interaction studies in healthy volunteers and patients have shown that the combination of ivabradine with the heart rate reducing agents diltiaze m or verapamil resulted in an increase in ivabradine exposure (2 to 3 fold increas e in AUC) and an additional heart rate reduction of 5 bpm. The concomitant use of ivabradine with these medicinal products is contraindicated  (see section 4.3 ). 
 Concomitant use not recommended  Ivabradine exposure was increased by 2 -fold following the co- administration with grapefruit juice. Therefore the intake of grapefruit juice should be avoided.  
 Concomitant use with precautions  
 Moderate CYP3A4 inhibit ors  
 The concomitant use of ivabradine with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. fluconazole) may be considered at the starting dose of 2.5 mg twice daily and if resting heart rate is above 70 bpm, with monitoring of heart rate . 
 CYP3A4 i nducers   
 CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, barbiturates, phenytoin, Hypericum perforatum  [St John’s Wort]) may dec rease ivabradine exposure and activity. The concomitant use of CYP3A4 inducing medicinal products may require an adjustment of the dose of iva bradine. The  combination of ivabradine 10 mg twice daily with St John’s Wort was shown to reduce ivabradine AUC by  half. The intake of St John’s Wort should be restricted during the treatment with ivabradine.  
 Other concomitant use  Specific interaction stud ies have shown no clinically significant effect of the following medicinal products on pharmacokinetics and pharm acodynamics of ivabradine: proton pump inhibitors (omeprazole, lansoprazole), sildenafil, HMG Co 
 A reductase inhibitors (simvastatin) , dihydropy ridine calcium channel blockers (amlodipine, lacidipine), digoxin and warfarin. In addition there was no clinical ly significant effect of ivabradine on the pharmacokinetics of simvastatin, amlodipine, 8 lacidipine, on the pharmacokinetics and phar macodynamic s of digoxin, warfarin and on the pharmacodynamics of aspirin.  In pivotal phase III clinical trials the following  medicinal products  were routinely combined with ivabradine with no evidence of safety concerns: angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angi otensin II antagonists, beta -blockers, diuretics, anti -aldosterone agents, short and long acting nitrates, HMG Co 
 A reductase inhibitors, fibrates, proton pump inhibitors, oral antidiabetics, aspirin and other anti -platelet medicinal products.  
 Paediatric p opulation  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
