4.5 I nteraction with other medicinal pro ducts and other forms of interaction  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions 
 Concomitant use not recommended  
 QT prolonging medicinal products  
- Cardiovascular QT prolonging medicinal products (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide, bepridi l, sotalol, ibutilide, amiodarone). 
- Non cardiovascular QT prolonging medicinal products (e.g. pimozide, ziprasidone, sertindole, mefloquine, halofantrine, pentamidine, cisapride, intravenous erythromycin). The concomitant use of cardiovascular and non card iovascular QT prolonging medicinal products with ivabradine should be avoided since QT prolongation may be exacerbated by heart rate reduction. If the combination appears necessary, close cardiac monitoring is needed (see section 4.4).  7  Concomitant use wit h precaution 
 Potassium- depleting diuretics (thiazide diuretics and loop diuretics)  Hypokalemia can increase the risk of arrhythmia. As ivabradine may cause bradycardia, the resulting combination of hypokal emia and bradycardia is a predisposing factor t o the onset of severe arrhythmias, esp ecially in patients with long QT syndrome, whether congenital or substance-induced. 
 Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 Ivabradine is metabolised by CYP3A4 only and it is a very weak inhibitor of this cytochrome. Ivabradine was shown not to influence the metabo lism and plasma concentrations of other CYP3A4 substrates (mild, moderate and strong inhibitors) . CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers are liable t o interact with ivabradine and influence its me tabolism and pharmacokinetics to a clinically significant extent. Interaction studies have established that CYP3A4 inhibitors increase ivabradine plasma concentrations, while inducers decrease them. Increased plasma concentrations of ivabradine may be associated with the risk of excessive bradycardia (see section 4.4). 
 Contraindication of concomitant use  
 Potent CYP3A4 inhibitors  The concomitant use of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as azole antifungals (ketoconazole, itraconazole), macrolide ant ibiotics (clarithromycin, erythromycin per os , josamycin, telithromycin), HIV p rotease inhibitors (nelfinavir, ritonavir) and nefazodone is contraindicated (see section 4.3). The potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ketoconazole (200 mg once daily)  and josamycin (1 g twice daily) increased ivabradine mean plasma exposure by 7 to 8 fold.  
 Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors  Specific interaction studies in healthy volunteers and patients have shown that the combination of ivabradine with the heart rate reducing agents diltiaze m or verapamil resulted in an increase in ivabradine exposure (2 to 3 fold increase in AUC) and an additional heart rate reduction of 5 bpm. The concomitant use of ivabradine with these medicinal products is contraindicated  (see section 4 .3). 
 Concomitant us e not recommended  Ivabradine exposure was increased by 2 -fold following the co-a dministration with grapefruit juice. Therefore the intake of grapefruit juice should be avoided.  Concomitant use with precautions  
 Moderate CYP3A4 inhibit ors The concomitant use of ivabradine with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. fluconazole) may be  considered at the starting dose of 2.5 mg twice daily and if resting heart rate is above 70 bpm, with monitoring of heart rate . 
 CYP3A4 in ducers  CYP3A4  inducers (e.g. rifampicin, barbiturates, phenytoin, Hypericum perforatum  [St John’s Wort]) may decrease ivabradine exposure and activity. The concomitant use of CYP3A4 inducing medicinal products may require an adjustment of the dose of ivabradine. The co mbination of ivabradine 10 mg twice daily with St John’s Wort was shown to reduce ivabradine AUC by half . The intake of St John’s Wort should be restricted during the treatment with ivabradine.  
 Other concomitant use  Specific intera ction studie s have shown no clinically significant effect of the following medicinal products on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ivabradine: proton pump inhibitors (omeprazole, lansoprazole), sildenafil, HMG Co 
 A reductase inhibitors (simvastatin),  dihydropyri dine calcium channel blockers (amlodipine, lacidipine), digoxin and warfarin. In addition there was no 8 clinically significant effect of ivabradine on the pharmacokinetics of simvastatin, amlodipine, lacidipine, on the pharmacokinetics and pharm acodynamics of digoxin, warfarin and on the pharmacodynamics of aspirin.  In pivotal phase III clinical trials the following medi cinal products  were routinely combined with ivabradine with no evidence of safety concerns: angiotensin converting enzyme inhibi tors, angiot ensin II antagonists, beta- blockers, diuretics, anti -aldosterone agents, short and long acting nitrates, HMG Co 
 A red uctase inhibitors, fibrates, proton pump inhibitors, oral antidiabetics, aspirin and other anti -platelet medicinal products.  
 Paediatric popul ation  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
