4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Talazoparib is a substrate for drug transporters P -gp an d breast cancer resistance protein  (BCRP) and it is mainly eliminated by renal clearance as unchanged compound.  
 Agents that may affect talazoparib plasma concentrations  
 P-gp inhibitors  
 Effect of enzalutamide  Co-administration with 160 mg enzalutamide increases talazoparib exposure approximately 2 -fold. Administration of talazoparib 0.5  mg daily in combination with enzalutamide achieves approximately the same steady -state trough (C trough) concentration reported  for talazoparib 1  mg daily (see section  5.2). When Talzenna is co -administered with enzalutamide, the Talzenna starting dose is 
0.5 mg (see section 4.2) . The interaction effect of doses other  than 160  mg enzalutamide on talazoparib has not been quantified . 
 The effect of co -administration of  other  P-gp inhibitors on talazoparib exposure when talazoparib is given in combination with enzalutamide has not been studied. If co -administration of P -gp inhibitors 7 cannot be avoided , when Talzenna  is given with enzalutamide, the patient should be monitored  for potential increased adverse reactions . 
 Effect of o ther P -gp inhibitors  Data from a drug -drug interaction study in patients with advanced solid tumours indicated that co-administration of multiple dail y doses of a P -gp inhibitor, itraconazole 100  mg twice daily with a single 0.5  mg talazoparib dose increased talazoparib total exposure (AUC inf) and peak concentration (Cmax) by approximately 56% and 40%, respectively, relative to a single 0.5  mg talazoparib dose administered alone. Population pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis has also shown that concomitant use of strong P -gp inhibitors increased talazoparib exposure by 45%, relative to talazoparib given alone.  
 Concomitant use of strong P -gp inhi bitors (including but not limited to  amiodarone, carvedilol, clarithromycin, cobicistat, darunavir, dronedarone, erythromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lapatinib, lopinavir, propafenone, quinidine, ranolazine, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevi r, tipranavir, and verapamil)  should be avoided. If co -administration with a strong P -gp inhibitor is unavoidable, the Talzenna dose should be reduced (see section 4.2).  
 P-gp inducers  Data from a drug -drug interaction study in patients with advanced soli d tumours indicated that co-administration of single 1  mg talazoparib dose with multiple daily doses of a P -gp inducer, rifampin 
600 mg, with rifampin co -administered 30 minutes before talazoparib on the day of talazoparib dosing, increased talazoparib C max by approximately  37% whereas AUC inf was not affected relative to a single 
1 mg talazoparib dose administered alone. This is probably the net effect of both P-gp induction and inhibition by rifampin under the tested conditions in the drug -drug interaction  study . No talazoparib dose adjustments are required when co -administered with rifampin. However, the effect of other P -gp inducers on talazoparib exposure has not been studied. Other P -gp inducers (including but not limited to carbamazepine, phenytoin, an d St. John’s wort) may decrease talazoparib exposure.  
 BCRP inhibitors  The effect of BCRP inhibitors on PK of talazoparib has not been studied in vivo . Co-administration of talazoparib with BCRP inhibitors may increase talazoparib exposure. Concomitant use of strong BCRP inhibitors (including but not limited to curcumin and cyclosporine) should be avoided. If co-administration of strong BCRP inhibitors cannot be avoided, patient should be monitored for potential increased adverse reactions.  
 Effect of acid -reducing agents  Population PK analysis indicates that co -administration of acid -reducing agents including proton pump inhibitors and histamine receptor 2 antagonists (H 2RA), or other acid -reducing agents had no significant impact on the abso rption of talazoparib.  
 Systemic hormonal contraception  Drug -drug interaction studies between talazoparib and oral contraceptives have not been conducted.  
 
