4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No drug interactions have been reported in human subjects and no drug-drug interaction studies in humans have been performed. 
 In vitro  inhibition  studi es In vitro studies with the most common human cytochrome P450 isoforms (including CYP1A2, 2B6, 
2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4)  have shown a possible mixed- type inhibition of CYP1A2 and CYP2C8 that may be of clinical relevance. No other significant clinically relevant interactions with CYPP450s were observed.  
 Theophylline:  when co- administering the narrow -therapeutic index medicinal product theophylline, which is primarily metabolised by CYP1A2, there is a theoretical concern that this substrate may 6 
 increas e in concentration resulting in theophylline toxicity. Theophylline levels should be carefully monitored in the weeks immediately following initiation of Pixuvri concurrent therapy.  
 Warfarin  is partially metabolised by CYP1A2, therefore, a theoretical concern exists with regard to co-administration of this medicinal product and the effect inhibition of its metabolism might have on its intended action. Coagulation parameters, specifically international normalised ratio (INR), should be monitored in the days  immediately following the initiation of Pixuvri concurrent therapy. 
 Amitriptyline, haloperidol, clozapine, ondansetron and propranolol are  metabolised by CYP1A2, and therefore, a theoretical concern exists that co -administration of Pixuvri may increase blood levels of this medicinal product.  
 Although a risk to  inhibition of pixantrone towards CYP2C8 could not be ascertained, caution should be observed when co- administering  substances that are primarily  metabolised via CYP2C8, such as repaglinide, rosigli tazone, or paclitaxel e.g. by careful  monitoring for side effects.  
 Based on in vitro  studies, pixantrone was found to be a substrate for the membrane transport proteins P-gp/BRCP and OCT1 and agents which inhibit these transporters have the potential to d ecrease hepatic uptake and excretion efficiency of pixantrone. Blood counts should be closely monitored when co-administe red with agents which inhibit such transporters such as cyclosporine A or tacrolimus, commonly used to control chronic graft-versus-hos t disease, and the anti -HIV agents ritonavir, saquinavir, or nelfinavir.  In addition, caution should be taken when pixantrone is continuously co- administered with efflux transport inducers such as rifampicin, carbamazepin and glucocorticoids, as pixantron e excretion might be increased with a consequent decrease of systemic exposure.  
 
