4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Potential for pharmacodynamic i nteractions with avanafil  Nitrates  Avanafil was shown to augment the hypotensive effects of nitrates  compared to placebo in healthy subjects . This is thought to result from the combined effects of nitrates and avanafil on the nitric oxide/c 
 GMP pathway. Therefore, administration of avanafil  to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate  or nitric oxide donor (such as amyl nitr ite) is contraindicated.  In a patient who has taken avanafil within 12  hours, where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life -threatening situation, the likelihood of a significant and potentially dangerous drop in blood pressure is increased.  In such circumstances, nitrates should still only be administered under close medical supervision with app ropriate h aemodynamic monitoring  (see section  4.3). 
 Medicinal products reducing systemic blood pressure  As a vasodilator, avanafil may r educe systemic blood pressure. If Spedra is used in combination with another medicinal product  which reduces systemic blood pressure, the additive effects may result i n symptomatic hypotension (e.g.  dizziness, light -headedness, syncope or near -syncope).  In phase  III clinical trials no events of “hypotension” but occasional episod es of “dizziness ” were observed  (see section  4.8). One episode of “syncope” was observed in placebo and one episode on 100  mg of avanafil in phase III clinical trials . 
 Patients  with left ventricular outflow obstruction (e.g. aortic stenosis, idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis) and those with severely impaired autonomic control of blood pressure  can be particularly sensitive to the actions of vasodilators including avanafil  (see section 4.4) . 
 Alpha -blockers  Haemodynamic interactions with doxazosin and tamsulosin were studied in healthy subjects in a two -period crossover -design trial.  In patients receiving stable doxazosin treatment, the placebo -subtracted mean maximum decreases in standing and supine systolic blood pressure following avanafil dosing were 2.5  mm 
 Hg and 6.0  mm 
 Hg, respectively.  In total, 7/24 subjects experienced values or decreases from baseline that were of potential clinical significance following avanafil dosing  (see section  4.4). 
 In patients receiving stable tamsulosin treatment, the placebo -subtracted mean maximum decreases in standing and supine systolic blood pressure following avanafil dosing were 3.6  mm 
 Hg and 3.1  mm 
 Hg,  
6 respectively  and 5/24 subjects experienced blood pressure values or decreases from baseline that were of potential clinical significance following avanafil dosing  (see section  4.4).  
 Antihypertensives  other than alpha -blockers  A clinical study was conducted to assess the effect of avanafil on the potentiation of the blood pressure -lowering effects of selected antihypertensive medicinal products  (amlodipine and enalapril).  Results showed a mean maximum decrease in supine blood pressure of 2/3  mm 
 Hg compared to placebo with enalapril and 1/ -1 mm 
 Hg with amlodipine when avanafil was co -administered.  There was a statistically significant difference in maximum decrease from baseline in supine diastolic blood pressure with enalapril and avanafil only, which returned to baseline 4  hours after the dose of avanafil.  In both cohorts, one subject ex perienced a  decrease in blood pressure without symptoms of hypotension, which resolved within 1 hour of onset.  Avanafil had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine, but amlodipine increased the maximum and total exposure of avanafil by 28% and 60%, respec tively  (see section 4.4) . 
 Alcoho l Consumption of alcohol in combination with avanafil can increase the potential for symptomatic hypotension. In a single -dose three -way crossover design study evaluating health y subjects, the mean maximum reduction in diastolic blood pressure was significantly greater following avanafil administered in combination with alcohol than following avanafil alone (3.2  mm 
 Hg) or alcohol alone (5.0 mm 
 Hg)  (see section  4.4). 
 Other treatments for erectile dysfunction  The safety and efficacy of combinations of  avanafil  and other PDE5 inhibitors or other treatments for erectile dysfunction have not been studied  (see section  4.4). 
 Effects of other s ubstances on avanafil  Avanafil  is a substrate of and predominantly metaboli sed by CYP3A4.  Studies have shown that medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A4 can increase avanafil exposure  (see section  4.2). 
 CYP3A4 Inhibitors  Ketoconazole (400  mg daily), a selective and highly potent inhibitor o f CYP3A4, increased avanafil 
50 mg single -dose Cmax and exposure (AUC) equal to 3-fold and 14-fold respectively and prolonged the half -life of avanafil to approximately 9  hours.  Ritonavir (600  mg twice daily), a highly potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, which also inhibit s CYP2C9, increased avanafil 50  mg single -dose C max and AUC equal to approximately 2 -fold and 13 -fold, and prolonged the half -life of avanafil to approximately 
9 hours.  Other s trong inhibitors o f CYP3A4 ( e.g. itraconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone , saquinavir, nelfinavir, indinavir, atazanavir , and telithromycin) would be expected to have similar effects.  Consequently, co-administration of avanafil with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated  (see section s 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4) . 
 Erythromycin (500 mg twic e daily) , a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor,  increased avanafil 200  mg single -dose C max and AUC equal to approximately 2 -fold and 3 -fold, respectively, and prolonged the half -life of avanafil to approximately 8 hours.  Other m oderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. amprenavir, aprepitant, diltiazem, fluconazole, fosamprenavir, and verapamil) would be expected to have similar effects.  Consequently,  the maximum re commended dose of avanafil  is 100  mg, not to exceed once every 
48 hours for pa tients taking concomitant moderate  CYP3A4 inhibitors  (see section  4.2). 
 Although specific interactions have not been studied, other CYP3A4 inhibitors, including grapefruit juice would likely increase avanafil exposure.  Patients should be advised to a void grapefruit juice within 24  hours prior to taking avanafil . 
 CYP3A4 substrate  Amlodipine (5  mg daily) increased avanafil 200  mg single -dose C max and AUC  by approximately 28% and 60%, respectively.  These exposure changes are not considered clinically significant.  There was no effect of a single dose of avan afil on amlodipine plasma levels . 
  
7 Although specific interactions of avanafil with rivaroxaban and apixaban (both CYP3A4 substrates) have not been studied, an interaction is not expected.  
 Cytochrome P450 Inducers  The potential effect of CYP inducers , espe cially inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g.  bosentan, carbamazepine, efavirenz, phenobarbital and rifampicin ) on the pharmacokinetics and efficacy of avanafil has not been evaluated.  The concomitant use of avanafil and a CYP inducer  is not recommended as it may decrease the efficacy of avanafil . 
 Effects of a vanafil  on other medicinal p roducts  Cytochrome P450 Inhibition  In in vitro  studies in human liver microsomes , avanafil  showed a negligible potential for drug -drug interactions with CYP1A1/2, 2A6, 2B6 and 2E1. Further, the metabolites of avanafil (M4, M16 and M27), also demonstr ated a minimal inhibition of CYPs 1A1/2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4.  Based on these data avanafil is not anticipated to have a significant effect on other medicinal products metabolised by these enzymes.  
 Since t he in vitro  data identif ied potential avanafil interactions with CYPs 2C19, 2C8/9, 2D6 and 3A4 , Update of section 4.8 of the Sm 
 PC in order to add ‘Injection site amyloid deposits’ to the list of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) with frequency not known, based on a review of the clinical study and post-marketing data to evaluate a possible causal association between anakinra (Kineret) and amyloidosis. The Package Leaflet is updated accordingly.  further clinical studies using omeprazole, rosiglitazone and desipramine did not reveal clinically relevant interactions with  CYPs 2C19, 2C8/9 and 2D6.  
 Cytochrome P450 Induction  The potential induction of CYP1A2, CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 by avanafil evaluated in primary human hepatocytes in vitro  did not reveal any potential interaction at clinically relevant  concentrations . 
 Transporters  In vitro  results showed for avanafil a modest potential for acting as P -gp sub strate and P -gp inhibitor with d igoxin as a substrate at concentrations lower than the calculated intestinal concentration. The potential of avanafil to interfere with the transport of other medicinal products mediated by P -gp is not known . 
 Based on in vitro data, at clinically relevant concentrations  avanafil could be a n inhibitor of BCRP.  At clinically relevant concentrations avanafil is not an inhibitor of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT 1, OCT2, OAT1, OAT3 and BSEP.  
 The impact of avanafil on other transporters is unknown.  
 Riociguat  Preclinical studies showed additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when PDE5 inhibitors were combined with riociguat. In clinical studies, riociguat has shown to augment the hypotensive effects of PDE5 inhibitors. There was no evidence of favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied. Concomitant use of riociguat with PDE5  inhibitors , including avanafil , is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 
