4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Berotralstat is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) substrate.  
 4 Effects of other medicinal products on berotralstat 
 P-gp and BCRP inhibitors Cyclosporine, a P -gp and BCRP inhibitor, increased the steady state maximum concentration (C max) of berotralstat by 25% and the AUC of berotralstat by 55%. Berotralstat exposure may be increased with concomitant administration of P -gp and BCRP inhibitors, but no dose adjustme nt is necessary.  Close monitoring for adverse events  is recommended for concomi tant use with P -gp and BCRP inhibitors. 
 P-gp and BCRP inducers Berotralstat is a substrate of P -gp and BCRP. P-gp and BCRP  inducers (e.g. rifampi cin, St. John’s wort) may decrease berotralstat plasma concentration, leading to reduced efficacy of berotralstat . The use of P -gp inducers is not recommended with berotralstat . 
 Effects of berotralstat on other medicinal products  
 CYP3A4 substrates Berotrals tat is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4, increasing the Cmax and AUC of oral midazolam by 
45% and  124%, respectively, and the C max and AUC of amlodipine by 45% and  77%, respectively. Concomitant administration may increase concentrations of other medic ines that are CYP3A4 substrates. Refer to the Sm 
 PC  for concomitant medicines that are predominantly metabolised by CYP3A4, particularly those with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g. cyclosporine, fentanyl) . Dose adjustments of these medicines may be required (see section 5.2). 
 CYP2D6 substrates Berotralstat is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6, increasing the C max and AUC of dextromethorphan by 
196% and 177%, respectively, and the C max and AUC of desipramine by 64% and 87%, respectively. Concomitant administration may increase exposure of other medicines that are CYP2D6 substrates. Refer to the Sm 
 PC  for concomitant medicines that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2D6, particularly tho se with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g. thioridazine, pimozide) or whose prescribing information recommends therapeutic monitoring (e.g. tricyclic antidepressants) . Dose adjustments of these medicines may be required  (see section 5.2 ). 
 CYP2C9 substrates Berotralstat is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9 increasing the Cmax and AUC of tolbutamide by 19% and 
73%, respectively. No dose adjustment is recommended for concomitant use of medicines that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2C9 (e.g. tolbutamide) (s ee sect ion 5.2). 
 The effect of berotralstat on the CYP2C9 conversion of desogestrel to etonogestrel (active metabolite) was negligible. No dose adjustment is recommended for concomitant use of desogestrel.  
 CYP2C19 substrates Berotralstat is not an inhibitor of CYP2C19, as Cmax and AUC  of omeprazole were increased by only 
21% and 24%, respectively. No dose adjustment is recommended for concomitant use of medicines that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2C19 (e.g. omeprazole) (see section 5.2). 
 P-gp substrates Berotralstat is a weak inhibitor of P -gp and increased the C max and AUC of the P- gp substrate digoxin by 58% and 48% , respectively . Refer to the Sm 
 PC for concomitant medicines that are P -gp substrates, particularly those with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g. digoxin) or whose prescribing infor mation recommends therapeutic monitoring (e.g. dabigatran) . Dose adjustments of these medicines may be required  (see section 5.2). 
 Oral contraceptives  As a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4, berotralstat may increase concentrations of oral contraceptives metabolised by CYP3A4. The coadministration of berotralstat with desogestrel increased the AUC of etonogestrel (active metabolite) by 58%, Cmax was not affected. The effect of berotralstat on the 5 CYP2C9 c onversion of desogestrel to etonogestrel was negligible. No dose adjustment is recommended for concomitant use of desogestrel . 
 
