4.5 Interaction wi th other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Effects of other medicinal products on sildenafil  
 In vitro studies  Sildenafil metabolism is principally mediated by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms 3A4 (major route) and 2C9 (minor route). Therefore, inhibitors of these isoenzymes may reduce sildenafil clearance and inducers of these isoenzymes may increase sildenafil clearance.  
 In vivo studies Population pharmacokinetic analysis of clinical trial data indicated a reduction in sildenafil cl earance when co -administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as ketoconazole, erythromycin, cimetidine).  Although no increased incidence of adverse events was observed in these patients, when sildenafil is administered concomitantly with CYP3A4 inhibitors, a starting dose of 25 mg should be considered.  
 6 Co-administration of the HIV protease inhibitor ritonavir, which is a highly potent P450 inhibitor, at steady state (500  mg twice daily) with sildenafil (100  mg single dose) resulted in a 300% (4-fold) increase in sildenafil C max and a 1,000% (11-fold) increase in sildenafil plasma AUC. At 24  hours, the plasma levels of sildenafil were still approximately 200  ng/m 
 L, compared to approximately 5  ng/m 
 L when sildenafil was administered alone. This is consistent with  ritonavir’s marked effects on a broad range of P450 substrates. Sildenafil had no effect on ritonavir pharmacokinetics. Based on these pharmacokinetic results co -administration of sildenafil with ritonavir is not advised (see section  4.4) and in any event  the maximum dose of sildenafil should under no circumstances exceed 25  mg within 
48 hours.  
 Co-administration of the HIV protease inhibitor saquinavir, a CYP3A4 inhibitor, at steady state (1200 mg three times a day) with sildenafil (100  mg single dose) re sulted in a 140% increase in sildenafil C max and a 210% increase in sildenafil AUC. Sildenafil had no effect on saquinavir pharmacokinetics (see section  4.2). Stronger CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole and itraconazole would be expected to have greater effects.  
 When a single 100 mg dose of sildenafil was administered with erythromycin, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, at steady state (500  mg twice daily for 5  days), there was a 182% increase in sildenafil systemic exposure (AUC). In normal healthy male vo lunteers, there was no evidence of an effect of azithromycin (500 mg daily for 3 days) on the AUC, Cmax, tmax, elimination rate constant, or subsequent half -life of sildenafil or its principal circulating metabolite. Cimetidine (800  mg), a cytochrome P450 inhibitor and non-specific CYP3A4 inhibitor, caused a 56% increase in plasma sildenafil concentrations when co -administered with sildenafil (50  mg) to healthy volunteers.  
 Grapefruit juice is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 gut wall metabolism and may give rise  to modest increases in plasma levels of sildenafil.  
 Single doses of antacid (magnesium hydroxide/aluminium hydroxide) did not affect the bioavailability of sildenafil. 
 Although specific interaction studies were not conducted for all medicinal products, population pharmacokinetic analysis showed no effect of concomitant treatment  on sildenafil pharmacokinetics when grouped as CYP2C9 inhibitors (such as tolbutamide, warfarin, phenytoin), CYP2D6 inhibitors (such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants), thiazide and related diuretics, loop and potassium  sparing diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium channel blockers, beta-adrenoreceptor antagonists or inducers of CYP450 metabolism (such as rifampicin, barbiturates). In a study of healthy male volunteers, co -administration of the end othelin antagonist, bosentan, (an inducer of CYP3A4 [moderate], CYP2C9 and possibly of CYP2C19) at steady state (125  mg twice a day) with sildenafil at steady state (80  mg three times a day) resulted in 
62.6% and 55.4% decrease in sildenafil AUC and Cmax, respectively. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, is expected to cause greater decreases in plasma concentrations of sildenafil.  
 Nicorandil is a hybrid of potassium channel activator and nitrate. Due to the nitrate component it has the potential to  result in a  serious interaction with sildenafil. 
 Effects of sildenafil on other medicinal products  
 In vitro studies  Sildenafil is a weak inhibitor of the cytochrome P450 isoforms 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4 (IC 50>150  µM). Given sildenafil peak plasma concentrations of approximately 1 µM after recommended doses, it is unlikely that Sildenafil Actavis will alter the clearance of substrates of these isoenzymes.  
 There are no data on the interaction of sildenafil and non-specific phosphodiesterase inhibitors such as theophylline or dipyridamole.  
 7 In vivo studies Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/c 
 GMP pathway (see section  5.1), sildenafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrate s, and its co -administration with nitric oxide donors or nitrates in any form is therefore contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 Riociguat : Preclinical studies showed additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when PDE5 inhibitors were  combined with riociguat. In clinical studies, riociguat has been shown to augment the hypotensive effects of PDE5 inhibitors. There was no evidence of favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied. Concomitant use of riociguat with PDE5 inhibit ors, including sildenafil , is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Concomitant administration of sildenafil to patients taking alpha -blocker therapy may lead to symptomatic hypotension in a few susceptible individuals. This is most likely to occur within 4  hours post sildenafil dosing (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). In three specific drug-drug interaction studies, the alpha -blocker doxazosin (4  mg and 8 mg) and sildenafil (25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg) were administered simultaneously to patients with benign prostati c hyperplasia (BPH) stabilized on doxazosin therapy.  In these study populations, mean additional reductions of supine blood pressure of 7/7 mm 
 Hg, 
9/5 mm 
 Hg, and 8/4 mm 
 Hg, and mean additional reductions of standing blood pressure of 6/6 mm 
 Hg, 
11/4 mm 
 Hg, and 4/5 mm 
 Hg, respectively, were observed. When sildenafil and doxazosin were administered simultaneously to patients stabilized on doxazosin therapy, there were infrequent reports of patients who experienced symptomatic postural hypotension. These reports inc luded dizziness and light-headedness, but not syncope.  
 No significant interactions were shown when sildenafil (50  mg) was co -administered with tolbutamide (250 mg) or warfarin (40  mg), both of which are metabolised by CYP2C9.  
 Sildenafil (50  mg) did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by acetyl salicylic acid (150 mg). 
 Sildenafil (50  mg) did not potentiate the hypotensive effects of alcohol in healthy volunteers with mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 80 mg/dl. 
 Pooling of the following classes of antihypertensive medication: diuretics, beta- blockers, ACE  inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists, antihypertensive medicinal products (vasodilator and centrally -acting), adrenergic neurone blockers, calcium channel blockers and alpha-adrenocept or blockers, showed no difference in the side effect profile in patients taking sildenafil compared to placebo treatment. In a specific interaction study, where sildenafil (100  mg) was co -administered with amlodipine in hypertensive patients, there was an additional reduction on supine systolic blood pressure of 8  mm 
 Hg. The corresponding additional reduction in supine diastolic blood pressure was 
7 mm 
 Hg. These additional blood pressure reductions were of a similar magnitude to those seen when sildenafil was  administered alone to healthy volunteers (see section  5.1). 
 Addition of a single dose of sildenafil to sacubitril/valsartan at steady state in patients with hypertension was associated with a significantly greater blood pressure reduction compared to administration of sacubitril/valsartan alone. Therefore, caution should be exercised when sildenafil is initiated in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan. 
 Sildenafil (100  mg) did not affect the steady state pharmacokinetics of the HIV protease inhibitors, saquinavir and ritonavir, both of which are CYP3A4 substrates.  
 In healthy male volunteers, sildenafil at steady state (80  mg t.i.d.) resulted in a 49.8% increase in bosentan AUC and a 42% increase in bosentan C max (125 mg b.i.d.). 
 
