4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   In vitro  data 
 Mirabegron is transported and metabolised through multiple pathways. Mirabegron is a substrate for cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4, CYP2D6, butyrylcholinesterase, uri dine diphospho -glucuronosyltransferases (UGT), the efflux transporter P -glycoprotein (P -gp) and the influx organic cation transporters (OCT) OCT1, OCT2, an d OCT3. Studies of mirabegron using human liver microsomes and recombinant human CYP enzymes showed t hat mirabegron is a moderate and timedependent inhibitor of CYP2D6 and a weak inhibitor of CYP3A. Mirabegron inhibited P-gp-mediated drug transport at high  concentrations.  
 In vivo  data 
 Drug -drug interactions  The effect of co -administered medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of mirabegron and the effect of mirabegron on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products was studied in single and multiple dose studies. Most drug -drug interactions were studied using a dose of 100  mg mirabegron given as oral controlled absorption system (OCAS) tablets. Interaction studies of mirabegron with metoprolol and with metformin used mirabegron immediate -release (IR) 160  mg. 
 Clinically relevant drug interactions between mirabegron and medicinal products that inhibit, induce or are a substrate for one of the CYP isozymes or transporters are not expected except for the inhibitory effect of mirabegron on the met abolism of CYP2D6 substrates.  
 Effect of enzyme inhibitors  Mirabegron exposure (AUC) was increased 1.8 -fold in the presence of the strong inhibitor of CYP3A/P -gp ketoconazole  in healthy volunteers. No dose -adjustment is needed when Betmiga is combined with  inhibitors of CYP3A and/or P -gp. However, in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment  (GFR 30  to 89 m 
 L/min/1.73  m2) or mild hepatic impairment (Child -Pugh Class  A) concomitantly receiving strong CYP3A inhibitors, such as itraconazole, ketoconazole,  ritonavir and clarithromycin, the recommended dose is 25  mg once daily with or without food (see section 4.2). Betmiga is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment (GFR  15 to 29 m 
 L/min/1.73  m2) or patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child -Pugh Class  B) concomitantly receiving strong CYP3A inhibitors (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).   5  Effect of enzyme inducers  Substances that are inducers of CYP3A or P -gp decrease the plasma concentrations of mirabegron.  No dose adjustment is needed for mira begron when administered with therapeutic doses of rifampicin  or other CYP3A or P -gp inducers.  
 Effect  of CYP2D6 polymorphism  CYP2D6 genetic polymorphism has minimal impact on the mean plasma exposure to mirabegron (see section 5.2). Interaction of mirabegron with a known CYP2D6 inhibitor is not expected and was not studied. No dose adjustment is needed for mirabegron when administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors or in patients who are CYP2D6 poor metabolisers.  
 Effect of mirabegron on CYP2D6 substrates  In healthy volunteers, the inhibitory potency of mirabegron towards CYP2D6 is moderate and the CYP2D6 activity recovers within 15  days after discontinuation of mirabegron. Multiple once daily dosing of mirabegron IR resulted in a 90% increase in C max and a 229% increase in AUC of a single dose of metoprolol. Multiple once daily dosing of mirabegron resulted in a 79% increase in C max and a 
241% increase in AUC of a single dose of desipramine . 
 Caution is advised if mirabegron is co -administered with medicinal  products with a narrow therapeutic index and significantly metabolised by CYP2D6, such as thioridazine, Type  1C antiarrhythmics (e.g., flecainide, propafenone) and tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine, desipramine). Caution is also advised if mirab egron is co -administered with CYP2D6 substrates that are individually dose titrated . 
 Effect of mirabegron on transporters  Mirabegron is a weak inhibitor of P -gp. Mirabegron increased C max and AUC by 29% and 27%, respectively, of the P -gp substrate digoxin  in healthy volunteers. For patients who are initiating a combination of mirabegron  and digoxin, the lowest dose for digoxin should be prescribed initially. Serum digoxin concentrations should be monitored and used for titration of the digoxin  dose to obta in the desired clinical effect. The potential for inhibition of P -gp by mirabegron should be considered when Betmiga is combined with sensitive P -gp substrates e.g. dabigatran.  
 Other interactions  No clinically relevant interactions have been observed when  mirabegron was co -administered with therapeutic doses of solifenacin, tamsulosin, warfarin, metformin  or a combined oral contraceptive medicinal product containing ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel. Dose -adjustment is not recommended.  
 Increases in mira begron exposure due to drug -drug interactions may be associated with increases in pulse rate.  
