4.5 Interaction with other medicinal produc ts and other forms of interaction  
 MAO Inhibitors  
 Rasagiline is contraindicated along with other MAO inhibitors (including medicinal and natural products without prescription e.g. St. John's Wort)  as there may be a risk of non -selective MAO inhibition th at may lead to hypertensive crises (see section  4.3). 
 Pethidine  
 Serious adverse reactions have been reported with the concomitant use of pethidine and MAO inhibitors including  another selective MAO-B inhibitor. The concomitant administration of rasagiline and pethidine is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 Sympathomimetics  
 With MAO inhibitors there have been reports of medicinal product interactions with the concomitant use of sympathomimetic medicinal products. Therefore, in view of the MAO inhibitory activity of rasagiline , concomitant administration of rasagiline and sympathomimetics such as those present in nasal and oral decongestant s or cold medicinal products , containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine, is not recommended (see section  4.4). 
 Dextromethorphan  
 There have been reports of medicinal product interactions with the concomitant use of dextromethorphan and non-selective MAO inhibitors. Therefore, in view of the MAO inhi bitory activity of rasagiline , the concomitant administration of rasagiline and dextromethorphan is not recommended (see section  4.4). 
 SNRI/SSRI/ tri- and tetracyclic antidepressants  
 The concomitant use of rasagiline and fluoxetine or fluvoxamine should be avoided (see section  4.4). 
 For concomitant use of rasagiline with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors  (SSRIs )/selective serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors  (SNRIs) in clinical trials , see section  4.8. 
 Serious adverse reactions have been reported with the concomitant use of SSRIs, SNRIs, tricyclic /tetracyclic antidepressants and MAO inhibitors. Therefore, in view o f the MAO inhibitory activity of rasagiline, antidepressants should be administered with caution.  
 Agents that affect CYP1A2  activity  
 In vitro metabolism studies have indicated that cytochrome P450  1A2 (CYP1A2) is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of rasagiline.  
 CYP1A2  inhibitors  Co-administration of rasagiline and ciprofloxacin (an inhibitor of CYP1A2) increased the AUC of rasagiline by 83%. Co-administration of rasagiline and theoph ylline (a substrate of CYP1A2) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either product. Thus, potent CYP1A2 inhibitors may alter rasagiline plasma levels and should be administered with caution.  
 5 
 CYP1A2  inducers  There is a risk that the plasma levels of rasagiline in smoking patients could be decreased, due to induction of the metabolising enzyme CYP1A2.  
 Other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes  
 In vitro studies showed that rasagiline at a concentration of 1 µg/ml ( equivalent to a level that is 
160 times the average Cmax ~ 5.9-8.5 ng/ml in Parkinson’s disease patients after 1  mg rasagiline multiple dosing), did not inhibit cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4 and CYP4A. These results indicate that rasagiline’s therapeuti c concentrations are unlikely to cause any clinically significant interference with substrates of these enzymes (see section  5.3). 
 Levodopa and ot her Parkinson’s disease medicinal products   
 In Parkinson’s disease patients receiving rasagiline as adjunct therapy to chronic levodopa treatment, there was no clinically significant effect of levodopa treatment on rasagiline clearance.  
 Concomitant administration of rasagiline and entacapone increased rasagiline oral clearance by 28%.  
 Tyramine/rasagiline interaction  
 Results of f ive tyramine challenge studies (in volunteers and Parkinson’s disease patients), together with results of home monitoring of blood pressure after meals (of 464  patients treated with 0.5 or 1  mg/day of rasagiline o r placebo as adjunct therapy to levodopa for six months without tyramine restrictions), and the fact that there were no reports of tyramine/rasagiline interaction in clinical studies conducted without tyramine restriction, indicate that rasagiline can be u sed safely without dietary tyramine restrictions.  
 