4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Potential for other medicinal products to influence the pharmacokinetics (PK) of tofacitinib 
 Since tofacitinib is metabolised by CYP3A4, interaction with medicinal products that inhibit or induce CYP3A4 is likely. Tofacitinib exposure is increased when coadministered with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) or when admini stration of one or more concomitant medicinal products results in both moderate inhibition of CYP3A4 and potent inhibition of CYP2C19 (e.g., fluconazole)(see section 4.2).Tofacitinib exposure is decreased when coadministered with potent CYP inducers (e. g.,rifampicin). Inhibitors of CYP2C19 alone or P -glycoprotein are unlikely to significantly alter the PK of tofacitinib .Coadministration with ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor), fluconazole (moderate CYP3A4 and potent CYP2C19 inhibitor), tacrolimus (mild CYP3A4 inhibitor) and ciclosporin (moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor) increased tofacitinib AUC, while rifampicin (potent CYP inducer) decreased tofacitinib 
 AUC. Coadministration of tofacitinib with potent CYP inducers (e.g., rifampicin) may result in a loss of or reduced clinical response (see Figure 1). Coadministration of potent inducers of CYP3A4 with tofacitinib is not recommended. Coadministration with ketoconazole and fluconazole increase d tofacitinib Cmax, while tacrolimus, ciclosporin and rifampicin decreased tofacitinib Cmax. Concomitant administration with MTX 15 -25mg once weekly had no effect on the PK of tofacitinib in RA patients (see 
 Figure 1).14Figure 1. Impact of other medicinal products on PK of tofacitinib 
 Note: Reference group is administration of tofacitinib alone.a 
 Tofacitinib dose should be reduced to 5 mg twice daily in patients receiving 10 mg twice daily. Tofacitinib dose should be reduced to 5 mg once daily in patients receiving 5 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).Potential for tofacitinib to influence the PK of other medi cinal products 
 Coadministration of tofacitinib did not have an effect on the PK of oral contraceptives, levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol, in healthy female volunteers.In RA patients, coadministration of tofacitinib with MTX 15 -25mg once weekly decr eased the AUC and C maxof MTX by 10% and 13%, respectively. The extent of decrease in MTX exposure does not warrant modifications to the individualised dosing of MTX.Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
