4.5 and 
5.1). 
 It is recommended to vaccinate patients treated with ocrelizumab  with seasonal influenza vaccines that are inactivated.   
 Physicians should review the immunisation status of patients being considered for treatment with ocrelizumab . Patients who require vaccina tion should complete their immunisation at least 6 weeks prior to initiation of treatment .  
 Exposure in utero to ocrelizumab and vaccination of neonates and infants with live or live attenuated vaccines  
 Due to the potential depletion of B cells in infants of mothers who have been exposed to ocrelizumab during pregnancy, it is recommended that vaccination with live or live -attenuated vaccines should be delayed until B -cell levels have recovered; therefore,  measuring CD19- positive B -cell levels in neonates and infants prior to vaccination is recommended.  
 It is recommended that all vaccinations other than live or live- attenuated should follow the local immunisation schedule and measurement of vaccine- induced response titers should be considered to check whether individuals have mounted a protective immune response because the efficacy of the vaccination  may be decreased.  
 The safety and timing of vaccination should be discussed with the infant’s physician (se e section 4.6).  
 Sodium  
 This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say  essentially 
‘sodium -free’. 
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No interaction studies have been pe rformed, as no interactions are expected via cytochrome P450 enzymes, other metabolising enzymes or transporters.   
 Vaccinations  
 The safety of immunisation with live or live -attenuated vaccines, following ocrelizumab  therapy has not been studied.  
 Data are available on the effects of tetanus toxoid, 23- valent pneumococcal polysaccharide, keyhole limpet hemocyanin neoantigen, and seasonal influenza vaccines  in patients receiving  ocrelizumab  (see section 4.4 and 5.1 ).  
 After treatment over 2 years, t he proportion of patients with positive antibody titers against  S. pneumoniae , mumps, rubella and varicella were generally similar to the proportions at baseline.  
 10 Immunosuppressants  
 It is not recommended to use other immunosuppressive  therapies concomit antly with ocrelizumab  except corticosteroids for symptomatic treatment of relapses (see section 4.4) . 
  
