4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No interaction of entacapone with carbidopa has been observed with the recommended treatment schedule. Pharmacokinetic interaction with benserazide has not been studied.  
 In single -dose studies in healthy volunteers, no interactions were observed between entacapone and imipramine or between entacapone and moclobemide. Similarly, no interactions between entacapone and selegiline were observed in repeated -dose studies in parkinsonian patients. Howe ver, the experience of the clinical use of entacapone with several medicinal products, including MAO -A inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors such as desipramine, maprotiline and venlafaxine, and medicinal products that ar e metabolised by COMT (e.g. catechol -structured compounds: rimiterole, isoprenaline, adrenaline, noradrenaline, dopamine, dobutamine, alpha -methyldopa, apomorphine, and paroxetine) is still limited. Caution should be exercised when these medicinal products  are used concomitantly with entacapone (see also sections 4.3 and 4.4).  
 Entacapone may be used with selegiline (a selective MAO -B inhibitor), but the daily dose of selegiline should not exceed 10 mg.  
 Entacapone may form chelates with iron in the gastroi ntestinal tract. Entacapone and iron preparations should be taken at least 2- 3 hours apart (see section 4.8).   5  Entacapone binds to human albumin binding site II which also binds several other medicinal products, including diazepam and ibuprofen. Clinical i nteraction studies with diazepam and non- steroidal anti -inflammatory medicinal products have not been carried out. According to in vitro  studies, significant displacement is not anticipated at therapeutic concentrations of the medicinal products.  
 Due to i ts affinity to cytochrome P450 2C9 in vitro  (see section 5.2), entacapone may potentially interfere with medicinal products with metabolism dependent on this isoenzyme, such as S -warfarin.  
 However, in an interaction study with healthy volunteers, entacapone did not change the plasma levels of S-warfarin, while the AUC for R -warfarin increased on average by 18  % [CI 90 11–26%]. The INR values increased on average by 13% [CI 90 6–19%]. Thus, control of INR is recommended when entacapone treatment is initiated for patients receiving warfarin.  
 
