4.5 Interaction with other medic inal p roducts  and other forms of interaction  
 In vitro data indicate that axitinib is metaboli sed pr imari ly by CYP3A4/5 and, to  a lesser extent, CYP1A2, CYP2C19, and uridine diphosphate -glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1 . 
 CYP3A4 /5 inhibitors  Ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4/5, administered at a dose of 400  mg once daily for 
7 days, increased th e mea n area under the curve  (AUC ) 2-fold and C max 1.5-fold of a single 5 -mg oral dose of axitinib  in he althy volunteers. Co -administration of axitinib with strong  CYP3A4 /5 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, erythromycin, atazanavi r, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, and telithromycin) may increase axitinib  plasma concentrations. Grapefruit may also increase axitinib plasma  concentrations. Selection of concomitant medicin al products  with no or minimal CYP3A4/ 5 inhibition potential is r ecommended. If a strong CYP3A4/5  inhibitor must be co -administered , a dose adjustment  of axitinib is recommended  (see section  4.2). 
 CYP1A2 an d CYP2C19 inhibitors  CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 constitute minor (< 10%) pathways in axitinib m etabo lism. The effect of strong inhibitors of these isozymes on axitinib pharmacokinetics has not been studied . Caution should be exercised due to the risk of increased axitinib plasma concentrations in patients taking strong inhibitors of these isozymes.  
 CYP3 A4/5 inducer s Rifampi cin, a strong  inducer of CYP3A4/5, administered at a dose o f 600  mg once d aily for 9  days, reduced the mean AUC by  79% and C max by 71% of a single 5 mg dose of axitinib in healthy volunteers.  
 Co-administration of axitinib with strong  CYP3A4/5  inducers (e. g. rifampi cin, dexamethasone, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifabutin, rifapentin, phenobarbital, and Hypericum perforatum  [St. John’ s wort]) may decrease axitinib plasma concentrations.  Selection of concomitant medicin al products  with 8 no or minimal CYP3A4/5  induction potential is recommended. If a strong CYP3A4/5 inducer must be co-administered , a dose adjustment of axitinib is recomme nded (see sec tion 4.2). 
 In vitro studies of CYP and UGT inhibition and induction  In vitro  studies i ndica ted that axitinib does  not inhibit CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4/5, or UGT1A1 at therapeutic plasma concentrations.  
 In vitro  studie s indicated t hat axitinib has a potential to inhibit CYP1A2. Therefore, co -administration of axitini b with CYP1A2 substrates ma y result in increased plasma concentrations of CYP1A2  substrates (e.g. theophylline).  
 In vitro  studies also indicated that axit inib h as the potential to inhibit CYP2C8. However, co-administration of axitinib with paclitaxel, a known  CYP2C8 substrate, did  not result in increased plasma concentrations of paclitaxel in patients with advanced cancer , indicating lack of clinical CYP2C8  inhib ition.  
 In vitro studies in human hepatocytes also indicated that axitinib does not induce CY P1A1 , CYP1A 2, or CYP3A4/5.  Therefore co -administration of axitinib is not expected to reduce the plasma  concentration of co -administered CYP1A1 , CYP1A2, or  CYP3A4 /5 subs trates in vivo. 
 In vitro studies with P -glycoprotein  In vitro  studies indicated that a xitinib inhibits P -glycopro tein. However, axitinib is not expected to inhibit P -glycoprotein at therapeutic plasma  concentrations . Therefore, co-administrat ion of axitin ib is not expected to increase  the plasma concentration  of digoxin, or other P-glycopro tein substrates , in vivo. 
 
