4.5 Interaction w ith other medicinal products and other forms of interact ion 
 In vitro  studies indicate that bortezomib is a weak inhibitor of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4. Based on the limited contribution (7%) of CYP2D6 to  
13 
 the metabolism of bortezomib, the CYP2D6 poor metaboliser phenotype is  not expected  to affect the overall disposition of bortezomib.  A drug -drug interaction study assessing the effect of ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, on the pharmacokinetics of bortezomib (injected intravenously), showed a mean bortezomib AUC incre ase of 35% (C I90% [1.032 to 1.772]) based on data from 12 patients. Therefore, patients should be closely monitored when given bortezomib in combination with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, ritonavir).  
 In a drug -drug interaction study assessi ng the effect  of omeprazole, a potent CYP2C19 inhibitor, on the pharmacokinetics of bortezomib (injected intravenously), there was no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of bortezomib based on data from 17 patients.  
 A drug -drug interaction study as sessing the e ffect of rifampicin, a potent CYP3A4 inducer, on the pharmacokinetics of bortezomib (injected intravenously), showed a mean bortezomib AUC reduction of 45% based on data from 6 patients. Therefore, the concomitant use of bortezomib with strong  CYP3A4 induc ers (e.g., rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital and St. John's Wort) is not recommended, as efficacy may be reduced.  
 In the same drug -drug interaction study assessing the effect of dexamethasone, a weaker CYP3A4 inducer, on the  pharmacokine tics of bortezomib (injected intravenously), there was no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of bortezomib based on data from 7 patients.  
 A drug -drug interaction study assessing the effect of melphalan -prednisone on the pharmacokineti cs of bortezo mib (injected intravenously), showed a mean bortezomib AUC increase of 17% based on data from 21 patients. This is not considered clinically relevant.  
 During clinical trials, hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia were uncommonly and commonly reporte d in diabetic  patients receiving oral hypoglycemics. Patients on oral antidiabetic agents receiving bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood glucose levels and adjustment of the dose of their antidiabetics.  
 
