4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Interactions with beta blockers  7  Beta adrenergic blockers may weaken or antagonise the effect of salmeterol. Both non -selective and selective 
β blockers should be avoided unless there are compelling reasons for their use. Potentially serious hypokalaemia may result from β 2 agonist therapy  (see section 4.4) . Particular caution is advised in acute severe asthma as this effect may be potentiated by concomitant treatment with xanthine derivatives, steroids,  and diuretics.  
 Salmeterol  
 Potent CYP3A4 inhibitors  Co-administration of ketoconazole (400 mg orally once daily) and salmeterol (50  micrograms inhaled twice daily) in 15 healthy subjects for 7 days resulted in a significant increase in plasma salmeterol exposure (1.4 -fold C max and 15-fold AUC). This may lead to an increase in the incidence of other systemic effects of salmeterol treatment (e.g. prolongation of QTc interval and palpitations) compared with salmeterol or ketoconazole treatment alone (see section 4.4).  
 Clinically significant effects were not seen on blood pressure, heart rate, blood glucose , and blood potassium levels. Co -administration with ketoconazole did not increase the elimination half -life of salmeterol or increase salmeterol accumulation with repeat dosing.  
 The concomitant administration of ketoconazole should be avoide d, unless the benefits outweigh the potentially increased risk of systemic effects of salmeterol treatment. There is likely to be a similar risk of interaction with other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g.,  itraconazole, telithromycin, ritonavir ). 
 Moderate CY P3A4 inhibitors  Co-administration of erythromycin (500  mg orally 3 times a day) and salmeterol (50  micrograms inhaled twice daily) in 15 healthy subjects for 6 days resulted in a small but non-statistically significant increase in salmeterol exposure (1.4 -fold Cmax and 1.2-fold AUC ). Co -administration with erythromycin was not associated with any serious adverse effects.  
 Fluticasone propionate  
 Under normal circumstances, low plasma concentrations of fluticasone propionate are achieved after inhaled dosing, due to extensive first pass metabolism and high systemic clearance mediated by cytochrome P450 
3A4 in the gut and liver. Hence, clinically significant drug interactions mediated by fluticasone propionate are unlikely.  
 In an interaction study in healthy subjects with intranasal fluticasone propionate, ritonavir (a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor) administered 100 mg twice daily increased the fluticasone propionate plasma concentrations several hundred-fold, r esulting in markedly reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Information about this interaction is lacking for inhaled fluticasone propionate, but a marked increase in fluticasone propionate plasma levels is expected. Cases of Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal  suppression have been reported. The combination should be avoided unless the benefit outweighs the increased risk of systemic glucocorticoid undesirable effects (see section 4.4) . 
 In a small study in healthy volunteers, the slightly less potent CYP3A inh ibitor ketoconazole increased the exposure of fluticasone propionate after a single inhalation by 150%. This resulted in a greater reduction of plasma cortisol as compared with fluticasone propionate alone. Co -treatment with other potent CYP3A inhibitors, such as itraconazole, and moderate CYP3A inhibitors, such as erythromycin, is also expected to increase the systemic fluticasone propionate exposure and the risk of systemic undesirable effects. Caution is recommended and long-term treatment with such drug s should,  if possible , be avoided.  
 Co-treatment with CYP3A inhibitors, including cobicistat-containing products, is expected to increase the risk of systemic side-effects. The combination should be avoided unless the benefit outweighs the increased risk o f systemic corticosteroid side-effects, in which case patients should be monitored for systemic corticosteroid effects.  8  
 Interaction with P-glycoprotein inhibitors  
 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol are both poor substrates of P -glycoprotein (P -gp). Fluticasone did not show  P-gp inhibition potential in in vitro studies. No inf ormation is a vailable on salmeterol P -gp inhibition potential. No clinical pharmacology studies with a specific P -gp inhibitor and fluticasone propionate/salmeterol have been conducted.  
 Sympathomimetic medicinal products  
 Concomitant administration of other sympathomimetic medicinal products (alone or as part of combination therapy) can have a potentially additive effect.  
 
 
