4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Effects of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of glasdegib 
 In vitro , CYP3A4 is responsible for the majority of glasdegib depletion and contributed to the formation of other minor oxidative metabolites, with CYP2C8 and UGT1A9 playing a minor role in the metabolism of glasdegib . Substances that may increase glasdegib plasma concentration 
 CYP3A4 inhibitors 
 Ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, dosed at 400 mg once daily for 7 days, increased the mean area under the curve (AUC inf) by ~2.4-foldand maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax)by 40% of a single 200 mg oral dose of glasdegib in healthy subjects . Caution should be used when administering concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir, cobicistat, conivaptan, itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, telaprevir, tr oleandomycin, voriconazole, ritonavir , grapefruit or grapefruit juice ) as an increase in glasdegib plasma concentration may occur. If possible, alternate concomitant medicinal product with no or minimal CYP3A4 inhibition potential is recommended (see sect ion 4.4) .Gastric p 
 H altering medicinal products 
 Coadministration of a single 100 mg glasdegib dose under fasted condition with multiple doses of the proton -pump inhibitor (PPI), rabeprazole, resulted in no change in glasdegib plasma exposure (AUC infratio: 100. 6%). Concomitant administration of glasdegib with acid -reducing agents (including PPIs, H2-receptor antagonists, and locally acting antacids) is permitted.Substances that may decrease glasdegib plasma concentration 
 CYP3A4 inducers 
 Rifampi cin,a strong inducer of CYP3A4, administered at a dose of 600 mg once daily for 11 days, reduced the mean AUC infby 70% and C maxby 35% of a single 100 mg dose of glasdegib in healthy subjects . Concomitant use with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampi cin,carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane, phenytoin and St. John’s Wort)should be avoided , as this is likely to decrease glasdegib plasma concentrations. Simulations using physiologic -based pharmacokinetic modelling suggested that coadministration of efavirenz (a moderate inducer of CYP3A4) with glasdegib decreased glasdegib AUC infby 55% and Cmax by 25%. Concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin) should be avoided as they may also reduce glasd egib plasma concentrations (see section 4.4) .If concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inducers cannot be avoided, the dose of Daurismo should be increased (see section 4.2).Effect of glasdegib on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products 
 Pharmacodynamic interactions 
 Medicinal products known to prolong QT interval 
 Glasdegib may prolong QT interval. Therefore, the concomitant use of glasdegib with other medicinal products known to prolong QT interval or induce Torsades de Pointes should be c arefully considered (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 Drug transporters 
 In vitro studies indicated that glasdegib may have the potential to inhibit P -glycoprotein (P -gp, gastrointestinal [GI] tract) and breast cancer resistance pr otein (BCRP, systemically and at the GI tract) mediated transport at clinically relevant concentrations. Therefore, narrow therapeutic index substrates of P -gp (e.g., digoxin) or BCRP should be used with caution in combination with glasdegib. 10In vitro st udies of transporter inhibition 
 In vitro studies indicated that glasdegib may have the potential to inhibit (MATE)1 and MATE2K at clinically relevant concentrations.
