4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Concomitant therapy with medicinal products that are contrai ndicated during treatment with k etoconazole and resulting in potentially life -threatening adverse reactions  : 
 o CYP3A4 metabolised HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors (e.g. simvastatin, atorvastatin and lovastatin)  due to an increased risk of skeletal muscle toxicity including rhabdomyolysis;  o eplerenone due to an increased risk of hyperkalemia and hypotension;  o substances that may have their plasma concentrations increase d and have QT prolonging potential : methadone, disopyramide, quinidine, dronedarone, pimozide, sertindole, saquinavir (saquinavir/ritonavir 
1000/100 mg bid), ranolazine, mizolastine, halofantrine;  o dabigatran due to an increased bleeding risk;  o triazolam, oral midazolam and alprazolam due to potential for prolonged or increased sedation and respiratory depression;  o ergot alkaloids (eg dihydroergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), ergotamine and methylergometrine (methylergonovine) due to an increased ris k of ergotism and other serious vasospastic adverse reactionsevents  o lurasidone;  o quetiapine due to an increased risk of toxicity;  o telithromycin and clarithromycin in patients with severe renal impairment due to an increased risk of hepatotoxicity and QT interval prolongation;  o felodipine, nisoldipine due to an increased risk of oedema and congestive heart failure;  o colchicine in pa tients with renal impairment due to an increased risk of severe adverse reactions;  o irinotecan  due to an alteration of the metabolism of this medicinal product;  o everolimus, sirolimus (also known as rapamycin) due to an increase of the plasma concentrat ions of these medicinal products;  o vardenafil in men older than 75 -years due to increased risk of adverse reactions  o paritaprevir/ombitasvir (ritonavir) due to increased risk of adverse reactions;  o fesoterodine and solifenacin in patients with renal imp airment; o tolvaptan used for a specific disease called “syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion”.  
 The list above is not an inclusive list of compounds that may interact with ketoconazole and result in potentially life -threatening reactions . 
 Medicinal  products affecting the absorption of ketoconazole  
 Medicinal products affecting gastric acidity impair the absorption of ketoconazole  (see section 4.4).  
 Effects of other medicinal products on the metabolism of ketoconazole  
 Ketoconazole  is mainly metabolised by cytochrome CYP3A4.  Enzyme-inducing medicinal products  such as rifampicin, rifabutin, carbamazepine, isoniazid, nevirapine , mitotane and phenytoin may significantly reduce the bioavailability of ketoconazole . Use of ketoconazole  with potent enzyme inducers is not recommended.  8 Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g . antivirals such as ritonavir, ritonavir -boosted darunavir and ritonavir -boosted fosamprenavir) may increase the bioavailability of ketoconazole , these medicinal products  should be used with caution when co -administered with ketoconazole  and patients shou ld be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of adrenal insuficiency. Ketoconazole  dose should be adjusted accordingly.  
 Effects of ketoconazole  on the metabolism of the other medicinal products  
 
- Ketoconazole  is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 and can inhibit the metabolism of medicinal products  metabolised by this enzyme. This can result in an increase and/or prolongation of their effects, including adverse reactions. 
- In vitro data indicate that ketoconazole is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 and does not significantly inhibit CYP 
2A6 and 2E1. At clinically relevant concentrations inhibition of CYP2B6, 2C9/C8, 2C19 and 2D6 by ketoconazole cannot be excluded.  
- Ketoconazole  can inhibit the transport of medicinal products  by P-gp, which may result in an increased plasma concentration of these medicinal products . 
- Ketoconazole inhibits BCRP (Breast Cancer Resistance Protein) in in vitro studies. Data of inhibition indicate that risk of interaction with BCRP substrates cannot be excluded at the systemic level  with very high doses of ketoconazole . However , ketoconazole may be an inhibitor of BCRP at the intestinal level at clinically relevant concentrations . Considering the rapid absorption of ketoconazole, intake of BCRP  substrates should be postponed for 2 hours after ketoconazole intake.  
 Table 1 Interactions and recommendations for co -administration.  
 Interactions between ketoconazole and other medicinal products are listed in the table below (increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, an  no change as “↔”) . The degrees of interaction mentioned below are not absolute values and may be dependent on the ketoconazole dose given , i.e. many results are reported following a ketoconazole dose of 200 mg and a stronger interaction may be expected at a higher dose and/or shorter dosing interval. The following list is not an inclusive list of interactions between ketoconazole and other medicinal products  
 Medicinal product by therapeutic area  Expected effect on drug levels  Recommendation for co -administration  Analgesic opioid    Methadone  
 Potential ↑ in plasma concentrations of methadone   Contraindicated due to the increased risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation and torsade de pointes, or respiratory or CNS depression (see section 4.3).  Buprenorphine IV and sublingual  Buprenorphine:  AUC: ↑ 1.5 -fold Cmax: ↑1.7-fold Careful monitoring.  The buprenorphine dose s hould be adjusted. Alfentanil, fentanyl  
 Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of alfentanil and fentanyl  Careful monitoring of adverse reactions (respiratory depression, sedation) is recommended. It may be necessary to lower the dose of alfentanil and fentanyl.  Oxycodone  
 ↑in plasma concentrations of oxycodone  have been observed  
 Careful monitoring.  The oxycodone dose may be adjusted. Antiarrhythmics    Disopyramide  Quinidine  
 Dronedarone  
 
 Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of disopyramide and quinidine  
 Repeated doses of 200 mg ketoconazole daily resulted in a 17 -fold increase in dronedarone exposure  Contraindicated due to the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation (see section 4.3).  9 Medicinal product by therapeutic area  Expected effect on drug levels  Recommendation for co -administration  Digoxin 
 Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of digoxine Careful monitoring of digoxin levels is recommended.  Anticoagulants and antiplatelet drugs    Dabigatran  
 Dabigatran:  AUC: ↑ 2.6 -fold  Cmax: ↑2.5-fold Contraindicated due to an increased bleeding risk (see section 4.3).  Rivaroxaban  
 Rivaroxaban:  AUC: ↑ 2.6 -fold Cmax: ↑1.7-fold Not recommended due to an increased bleeding risk.  Apixaban  Apixaban  AUC: ↑ 2 -fold  Cmax: ↑1.6-fold Not recommended due to an increased bleeding risk. Cilostazol  
 Cilostazol:  AUC: ↑ 2.2  fold  
 The overall pharmacological activity of cilostazol increases 35% when co -administered with ketoconazole.  Careful monitoring  A cilostazol dose of 50 mg twice daily is recommended in combination with ketoconazole . Warfarin and other coumarin -like drugs  Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of warfarin  Careful monitoring  INR (international normalised ratio) monitoring recommended.  Edoxaban  AUC: ↑ 1.8 -fold  Cmax: ↑ 1.8-fold Dose of edoxaban needs to be reduced when used concomitantly, please consult edoxaban Sm 
 PC.  Anticonvulsants    Carbamazepine  Phenytoin  
 Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of carbamazepine and phenytoin  
 Potential ↓ in plasma concentrations of ketoconazole are expected.  (CYP3A enzyme induction)  Not recommended.  (See also “Effects of other medicinal products on the metabolism of Ketoconazol e HRA ”).  Antidiabetics    Repaglinide  
 Repaglinide:  AUC: ↑ 1.2 -fold Cmax: ↑ 1.2-fold  Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustement of repaglinide may be required . Saxagliptin  Saxagliptin:  AUC: ↑ 2.5 -fold Cmax: ↑ 1.6-fold  Associated with a decrease in corresponding values for the active metabolite  Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustment of saxagliptin  may be required . 
 Tolbutamide  Tolbutamide:  AUC: ↑ 1.7-fold Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustment of tolbutamide  may be required . Anti-infectives    Rifabutin  Rifampicin  Isoniazid  Potential ↑ in plasma concentrations of rifabutine.  Potencial ↓  in plasma concentrations of ketoconazole are expected.  (CYP3A4 enzyme induction)  Not recommended. (See also “Effects of other medicinal products on the metabolism of Ketoconazole HRA ”)  10 Medicinal product by therapeutic area  Expected effect on drug levels  Recommendation for co -administration  Telithromycin  Clarithromycin  
 
 Telithromycine:  AUC: ↑ 2 -fold Cmax: ↑1.5-fold Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of clarithromycin  
 Not recommended.  Contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment due to the risk of QT interval prolongation and serious hepatic adverse reactions (see section 4.3).  Isavuconazole  AUC: ↑ 5 -fold  Cmax: ↑ 1.1 -fold Not recommended due to increased risk of isavuconazole adverse reactions, please consult isavuconazole Sm 
 PC  Praziquantel  
 ↑in plasma concentrations of praziquantel have been observed  Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustment of praziquantel  may be required.  Antimigraine Drugs    Ergots alkaloids such as dihydroergotamine, ergometrine (ergonovine), ergotamine, methylergometrine (methylergonovine)  Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of ergot alkaloids  Contraindicated due to the increased risk of ergotism and other serious vasospastic adverse reactions (see section 4.3).  Eletriptan  
 Eletriptan:  AUC: ↑ 5.9 -fold Cmax: ↑ 2.7-fold Not recommended.  
 Antineoplastics    Irinotecan  
 Irinotecan:  AUC: ↑ 2.1 -fold  Contraindicated due to an alteration of the metabolism of this medicinal product (see section 4.3).  Sunitinib Dasatinib  Lapatinib  Nilotinib Erlotinib Dabrafenib  Cabozantinib  
 
 
 Sunitinib AUC: ↑ 1.5 -fold  Cmax: ↑ 1.5-fold Lapatinib:  AUC: ↑ 3.6 -fold Nilotinib:  AUC: ↑ 3.0 -fold Erlotinib:  AUC: ↑ 1.9 -fold Cmax: ↑ 1.7-fold Dasatinib  
↑in plasma concentrations of  Dasatinib have been observed  Dabrafenib  AUC: ↑ 1.7 -fold Cmax: ↑ 1.3-fold Cabozantinib  AUC: ↑ 1.4 -fold Cmax: ↔ Not recommended due to the risk of increased exposure to these  medicinal products and QT prolongation.  Ibrutinib Ibrutinib:  AUC: ↑ 24 -fold  Cmax: ↑ 29-fold  Not recommended as it may increase ibrutinib-related toxicity.  
 11 Medicinal product by therapeutic area  Expected effect on drug levels  Recommendation for co -administration  Crizotinib  Crizotinib  AUC: ↑ 3.2 -fold  Cmax: ↑ 1.4-fold  Not recommended due to the risk of QT interval prolongation and serious hepatic adverse reactions.  
 Monitoring of QT -prolongation if used concomitantly.  Bortezomib  Busulfan Docetaxel  Imatinib Cabazitaxel  
 Bortezomib:  AUC: ↑ 1.4 -fold Imatinib: AUC: ↑ 1.4 -fold Cmax: ↑ 1.3-fold 
↑in plasma concentrations of  docetaxel have been observed  Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of busulfan Cabazitaxel  AUC: ↑ 1.3 -fold Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustment of each medicinal product may be required . 
 Paclitaxel  
 Paclitaxel:  No change in plasma concentration were shown with paclitaxel concent rate. No studies were performed with albumin bound nanoparticules.  Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustment of paclitaxel  may be required . 
 Vincristine, vinblastine (vinca alkaloids)  Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of vinca alkaloids . Careful monitoring as it may cause an earlier onset and/or an increased severity of side -effects. Antipsychotics, Anxiolytics and Hypnotics    Triazolam  Alprazolam  Midazolam oral  AUC: ↑ have been observed  Cmax: ↑ have been observed  Contraindicated due to the risk of potentially prolonged or increased sedation and respiratory depression (see section 4.3).  Lurasidone  
 Lurasidone : AUC: ↑ 9  fold Cmax: ↑ 6 fold Contraindicated due to the increased risk of adverse reactions (see section 
4.3). Pimozide  
 Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of pimozide.  Contraindicated due to the risk of serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation (see section 4.3). Sertindole  
 Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of sertindole.  Contraindicated due to the risk of QT prolongation (see section 4.3).  Quetiapine  
 Quetiapine:  AUC: ↑ 6.2 -fold  Cmax: ↑ 3.4-fold  Contraindicated as it may increase quetiapine -related toxicity  (see section 4.3).  Haloperidol  Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of haloperidol.  
 Not recommended due to the increased risk of QT prolongation and extrapyramidal symptoms. It may be necessary to reduce haloperidol dosage.  Reboxetine  
 Reboxetine:  AUC: ↑ 1.5 -fold of both enantiomers  Not recommended because of reboxetine narrow’s therapeutic margin. Midazolam IV  
 Midazolam : AUC: ↑ 1.6 -fold 
 Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustment of midazolam IV  may be required . 12 Medicinal product by therapeutic area  Expected effect on drug levels  Recommendation for co -administration  Buspirone  
 Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of buspirone.  Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustement of buspirone  may be required . Aripiprazole  Aripiprazole  AUC: ↑ 1.6 -fold  Cmax: ↑ 1.4-fold  Careful monitoring.  Aripiprazole dose should be reduced to approximatively one -half of its prescribed dose.  Risperidone  
 Potential ↑in AUC of risperidone:  
 Careful monitoring . Dose adjustment of risperidone may be required.  Antivirals products    Saquinavir  (saquinavir/ritonavir  
1000/100 mg bid)  
 Saquinavir:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔ Ketoconazole  AUC: ↑ 2.7 -fold  Cmax:↑ 1.5-fold  (CYP3A4 enzyme inhibition by ritonavir)  Contraindicated due to the risk of QT prolongation (see section 4.3).  Paritaprevir/Ombitas vir (ritonavir)  Paritaprevir:  AUC: ↑2.2-fold Cmax: ↑1.7-fold 
 Ombitasvir:  AUC: ↑1.3-fold Cmax: ↔ 
 Ketoconazole:  AUC: ↑2.1-fold Cmax: ↑1.1-fold t1/2: ↑ 4-fold 
 Contraindicated due to the increased risk of adverse reactions (see section 
4.3). Nevirapine  
 Ketoconazole:  AUC: ↓0.28-fold Cmax: ↓0.56-fold Nevirapine: plasma levels: ↑1.15-1.28-fold compared to historical controls  
 (CYP3A enzyme induction)  Not recommended  Maraviroc  
 Maraviroc:  AUC: ↑ 5 -fold Cmax: ↑ 3.4-fold Careful monitoring. Maraviroc dose should be decreased to 150 mg twice daily. Indinavir 
 Indinavir (600mg TID):  AUC= 0.8 -fold  Cmin: ↑ 1.3-fold  (Relative to Indinavir 800 mg TID alone)  Careful monitoring . Dose reduction of indinavir to 600 mg every 8 hours should be considered.  Ritonavir  Ketoconazole:  AUC: ↑3.4-fold Cmax: ↑1.6-fold 
 (CYP3A enzyme inhibition)  A dose reduction of ketoconazole should be considered when co -administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral medicinal product  or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. (See also “Effects of other medicinal products on the metabolism of ketoconazole HRA ”) . 13 Medicinal product by therapeutic area  Expected effect on drug levels  Recommendation for co -administration  Beta Blockers    Nadolol 
 ↑in plasma concentrations of nadolol have been observed  Careful monitoring . Dose adjustment of nadolol may be required.  Calcium Channel Blockers   Felodipine  Nisoldipine  
 AUC: ↑ has been observed  Cmax: ↑ has been observed  
 Contraindicated due to an increase risk of edema and congestive heart failure (see section 4.3).  Other dihydropyridines  Verapamil  Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of these drugs  Careful monitoring . Dose adjustment of dihydropyridines  and verapamil may be required.  Cardiovascular Drugs, Miscellaneous    Ranolazine  
 Ranolazine:  AUC: ↑ 3.0 to 3.9 -fold Contraindicated due to the potential for serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation (see section 4.3).  Bosentan 
 Bosentan:  AUC: ↑ 2 -fold Cmax: ↑ 2-fold Not recommended due to the potential for hepatic toxicity (see section 4.3).  Aliskiren 
 Aliskiren:  AUC: ↑ 1.8 -fold  
 Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustment of aliskiren may be required. Diuretics    Eplerenone  
 Eplerenone:  AUC: ↑ 5.5 -fold  Contraindicated due to the increased risk of hyperkalaemia and hypotension (see section 4.3).  Gastrointestinal Drugs    Aprepitant  
 Aprepitant:  AUC: ↑ 5-fold Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustment of aprepitant  may be required  Domperidone  
 Domperidone:  AUC: ↑ 3.0 fold  Cmax: ↑ 3.0 fold  Not recommended due to an increased risk in QT prolongation.  Naloxegol  Naloxegol  AUC ↑ 12.9 fold  Cmax ↑ 9.6 fold Not recommended  Immunosuppressants    Everolimus  Sirolimus (rapamycin)  
 Everolimus:  AUC: ↑ 15.3 -fold  Cmax: ↑ 4.1-fold  Sirolimus (rapamycin):  AUC: ↑ 10.9 -fold Cmax: ↑ 4.4-fold Contraindicated due to the large increase in these medicinal products  concentrations (see section 4.3).  Temsirolimus  
 
 Tacrolimus  Ciclosporine  Budesonide  Ciclesonide  Temsirolimus:  AUC: ↔ Cmax: ↔ Ciclesonide active metabolite:  AUC: ↑ 3.5 -fold 
 Rest of drugs  
↑in plasma concentrations of  these drugs have been observed  Not recommended unless necessary. Careful monitoring and dose adjustment of these medicinal products may be required . 14 Medicinal product by therapeutic area  Expected effect on drug levels  Recommendation for co -administration  Dexamethasone, fluticasone, methylprednisolone  Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of these drugs  
 Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustment of  these medicinal products may be required . Lipid Lowering Drugs    Lovastatin, simvastatin, atorvastatin*  
 Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of these drugs  
 Contraindicated due to an increased risk of skeletal muscle toxicity, including rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3).  Respiratory Drugs    Salmeterol  Salmeterol  AUC: ↑ 15 -fold Cmax: ↑ 1.4-fold Not recommended due to an increased risk in QT prolongation.  Urological Drugs    Fesoterodine  Tolterodine  Solifenacin  
 Fesoterodine active metabolite:  AUC: ↑ 2.3 -fold Cmax: ↑ 2.0-fold  
 Solifenacin:  AUC: ↑ 3.0 -fold 
 
↑in plasma concentrations of tolterodine  have been observed  Not recommended due to an increased risk of QT prolongation.  Fesoterodine and solifenacin are contraindicated in patients with renal impairment (see section 4.3) . Phosphodiesterase(PDE5) inhibitors    Sildenafil  Tadalafil Vardenafil  Tadalafil:  AUC: ↑ 4 -fold Cmax: ↑ 1.2-fold 
 Vardenafil:  AUC: ↑ 10 -fold Cmax: ↑ 4-fold 
 Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of sildenafil Not recommended due to the increased risk of adverse reactions. 
 Vardenafil is contraindicated in men older than 75 years old (see section 
4.3). Other   Tolvaptan  
 ↑in plasma concentrations of tolvaptan have been observed   Contraindicated due to an increase in the plasma concentrations (see section 4.3).  Mizolastine  Halofantrine  Potential ↑in plasma concentrations of these drugs  Contraindicated due to the potential for serious cardiovascular events including QT prolongation (see section 4.3).  Colchicine  
  ↑in plasma concentrations of colchicine have been observed  
 Not recommended due to a potential increase in colchicine -related toxicity. Contraindicated in patients with renal impairment (see section 4.3).  Cinacalcet  
 Cinacalcet  AUC: ↑ 2 fold  Cmax: ↑ 2 fold Careful monitoring.  Dose adjustment of cinacalcet may be required . Ebastine 
 ↑in plasma concentrations of ebastine have been observed Not recommended due to an increased risk in QT prolongation.  
 15 * Rosuvastatin is not a CYP 3A4 substrate. Ketoconazole did not produce any change in rosuvastatin pharmacokinetics, therefore, co -administration of ketoconazole  and rosuvastatin is unlikely to increase the risk of toxicity of rosuvastatin. Other statins that are not CYP3A4 substrates (pravastatin and fluvastatin) can be co-administered  with ketoconazole . 
 Other interactions  
 Exceptional cases of a disulfiram -like reaction have been reported when ketoconazole was co -administered with alcohol, characterised by flushing, rash, periph eral oedema, nausea and headache, have been reported. All symptoms resolved completely within a fe w hours. 
 Co-administration of ketoconazole and pasireotide is not recommended since the combination can lead to a QT prolongation in patients with known cardiac rhythm disorders.  
 There is no evidence to suggest that there is an interaction between ketoconazole and other steroidogenesis inhibitors (i .e. metyrapone).  
 
