4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 In general  Cholestagel may affect the bioavailabilit y of other medicinal products. Therefore when a drug interaction cannot be e xcluded with a concomitant medicinal product  for which minor variations in the therapeutic level would be clinically important , Cholestagel should be administered at least four hours before or at least four hours after the concomitant medication to minimiz e the risk of reduced absorption of the concomitant medication. For concomitant medications which require administration via divided doses, it should be noted that the required dose of Cholestagel can be taken once a day.  
 When administering medicinal products for which alterations in blood levels could have a clinically significant effect on safety or efficacy, physicians should consider monitoring serum levels or effects.  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 In interaction studies in  healthy volunteers, Cholestagel had no effect on the bioavailability of digoxin, metoprolol, quinidine, valproic acid, and warfarin. Cholestagel decreased the Cmax and AUC of sustained -release verapamil by approxima tely 31% and 11%, respectively. Since th ere is a high degree of variability in the bioavailability of verapamil, the clinical significance of this finding is unclear.  
 Co-administration of colesevelam and olmesartan decreases the exposure of olmesartan.  Olmesartan should be administered at leas t 4 hours prior to colesevelam.  
 There have been very rare reports of reduced phenytoin levels in patients who have received Cholestagel administered with phenytoin. 
 Anticoagulant therapy  Anticoagulant therapy should be monitored closely in patients recei ving warfarin or similar agents, since bile acid sequestrants, like Cholestagel,  have been shown to reduce absorption of vitamin K and therefore interfere with warfarin's anticoagulant effect.  Specific clinical interaction studies with colesevelam and vit amin K have not been performed.  
 Levothyroxine  In an interaction study in healthy volunteers, Cholestagel reduced the AUC and Cmax of levothyroxine when administered either concomitantly or after 1 hour. No interaction was observed when Cholestagel was adm inistered at least four hours after levothyroxine.  
 Oral contraceptive pill  In an interaction study in healthy volunteers, Cholestagel reduced the C max  of norethindrone a s well as the AUC and C max of ethinylestradiol when administered simultaneously with the oral contraceptive pill. This interaction was also observed when Cholestagel was administered one hour after the oral contraceptive pill . However n o interaction was observed when Cholestagel was administered four hours after the oral contraceptive pill . 
 Ciclosporin  In an interaction study in healthy volunteers, co- administration of Cholestagel and ciclosporin significantly reduced the AUC 0-inf and C max of ciclospori n by 34% by 44%, respectively. Therefore 5 advice is given to closely monitor ciclosporin blood concentrations (see also section  4.4). In addition, based on theoretical grounds Cholestagel should be administered at least 4 hours after ciclosporin in order to further minimise the risks related to the concomitant administration of ciclosporin and  Cholestagel. Furthermore, Cholestagel should always be administered at the same times consistently since the timing of intake of Cholestagel and ciclosporin could theoretically influence the degree of reduced bioavailability of ciclosporin.  
 Statins  When Cholestagel was co -administered with statins in clinical studies, an expected add- on LDL -C lowering effect was observed, and no unexpected effects were observed. Cholestagel had no effect on the bioavailability of lovastatin in an interaction study.  
 Antid iabetic agents  Co-administration of colesevelam and metformin  extended -release ( ER) tablets increases the exposure of metformin.  Patients receiving concomitant metformin ER and colesevelam should be monitored for clinical response as is usual for the use o f anti -diabetes drugs.  
 Colesevelam binds to glimepiride and reduces glimepiride absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. No interaction was observed when glimepiride was taken at least 4 hours before colesevelam. Therefore glimepiride should be admini stered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam.  
 Co-administration of colesevelam and glipizide decreases the exposure of glipizide. Glipizide should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam.  
 Co-administration of Cholestagel and glyburide (also  known as glibenc lamide) caused a decrease in the AUC
0-inf and C max of glyburide by 32% and 47%, respectively. No interaction was observed when Cholestagel was administered four hours after glyburide. 
 Co-administration of Cholestagel and repaglinide had no effe ct on the AUC and caused a 19% reduction in the C max of repaglinide, the clinical significance of which is unknown. No interaction was observed when Cholestagel was administered one hour after repaglinide.  
 No interaction was observed when Cholestage l and pioglitazone were administered simultaneously in healthy volunteers  
 Ursodeoxycholic acid  Cholestagel predominantly binds hydrophobic bile acids. In a clinical study Cholestagel did not affect the faecal excretion of endogenous (hydrophilic) ursodeoxycholic acid. However, formal interaction studies with ursodeoxycholic acid have not been performed. As noted in general, when a drug interaction cannot be excluded with a concomitant medicinal product, Cholestagel should be administered at least four hour s before or at least four hours after the concomitant medication to minimise the risk of reduced absorption of the concomitant medication. Monitoring of the clinical effects of treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid should be considered.  
 Other forms of interaction Cholestagel did not induce any clinically significant reduction in the absorption of vitamins A, D, E or K during clinical studies of up to one year. However, caution should be exercised when treating patients with a susceptibility to vitamin K or f at-soluble vitamin deficiencies, such as patients with malabsorption. In these patients, monitoring vitamin A, D and E levels and assessing vitamin K status through the measurement of coagulation parameters is recommended and the vitamins should be supplem ented if necessary.  
 
