4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Effects of other substances on tadalafil  
 Cytochrome P450 Inhibitors  
 Azole Antifungals (e.g. ketoconazole)  Ketoconazole (200 mg daily), increased tadalafil (10 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 2-fold and C max by 15%, relative to the AUC and C max values for tadalafil alone. Ketoconazole (400 mg daily) increased tadalafil (20 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 4-fold and C max by 22%.  
 Protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir)  Ritonavir (200 mg twice daily), which is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, increased tadalafil (20 mg) single dose exposure (AUC) 2-fold with no change in C max. Ritonavir (500 mg or 600 mg twice daily) increased tadalafil (20 mg) single-dose exposure (AUC) by 32% and decreased C max by 30%.  
 Cytochrome P450 Inducers  
 Endothelin-1 receptor antagonists (e.g. bosentan)  Bosentan (125 mg twice daily), a substrate of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 and a moderate inducer of CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and possibly CYP2C19, reduced tadalafil (40 mg once per day) systemic exposure by 42% and C max by 27% following multiple dose co-administration. The efficacy of tadalafil in patients already on bosentan therapy has not been conclusively demonstrated (see sections 4.4 and 
5.1). Tadalafil did not affect the exposure (AUC and C max) of bosentan or its metabolites.  
 The safety and efficacy of combinations of tadalafil and other endothelin-1 receptor antagonists have not been studied.  
 Antimicrobial medicinal products (e.g. rifampicin)  A CYP3A4 inducer, rifampicin (600 mg daily), reduced tadalafil AUC by 88% and C max by 46%, relative to the AUC and C max values for tadalafil alone (10 mg).  
 Effects of tadalafil on other medicinal products  
 Nitrates  In clinical studies, tadalafil (5, 10 and 20 mg) was shown to augment the hypotensive effects of nitrates. This interaction lasted for more than 24 hours and was no longer detectable when 48 hours had elapsed after the last tadalafil dose. Therefore, administration of tadalafil to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Anti-hypertensives (including Calcium channel blockers)  The co-administration of doxazosin (4 and 8 mg daily) and tadalafil (5 mg daily dose and 20 mg as a single dose) increases the blood pressure-lowering effect of this alpha-blocker in a significant manner. This effect lasts at least twelve hours and may be symptomatic, including syncope. Therefore, this combination is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
 In interaction studies performed in a limited number of healthy volunteers, these effects were not reported with alfuzosin or tamsulosin.  
  
6 In clinical pharmacology studies, the potential for tadalafil (10 and 20 mg) to augment the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive medicinal products was examined. Major classes of antihypertensive medicinal products were studied either as monotherapy or as part of combination therapy. In patients taking multiple antihypertensive medicinal products whose hypertension was not well controlled, greater reductions in blood pressure were observed compared to patients whose blood pressure was well controlled, where the reduction was minimal and similar to that in healthy subjects. In patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive medicinal products, tadalafil 20 mg may induce a blood pressure decrease, which (with the exception of doxazosin -see above) is, in general, minor and not likely to be clinically relevant.  
 Riociguat  Preclinical studies showed an additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when PDE5 inhibitors were combined with riociguat. In clinical studies, riociguat has been shown to augment the hypotensive effects of PDE5 inhibitors. There was no evidence of favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied. Concomitant use of riociguat with PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Alcohol  Alcohol concentrations were not affected by co-administration with tadalafil (10 mg or 20 mg). In addition, no changes in tadalafil concentrations were seen after co-administration with alcohol. Tadalafil (20 mg) did not augment the mean blood pressure decrease produced by alcohol (0.7 g/kg or approximately 180 ml of 40% alcohol [vodka] in an 80 kg male), but in some subjects, postural dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were observed. The effect of alcohol on cognitive function was not augmented by tadalafil (10 mg).  
 CYP1A2 substrates (e.g. theophylline)  When tadalafil 10 mg was administered with theophylline (a non-selective phosphodiesterase inhibitor) there was no pharmacokinetic interaction. The only pharmacodynamic effect was a small (3.5 bpm) increase in heart rate.  
 CYP2C9 substrates (e.g.R-warfarin)  Tadalafil (10 mg and 20 mg) had no clinically significant effect on exposure (AUC) to S-warfarin or R-warfarin (CYP2C9 substrate), nor did tadalafil affect changes in prothrombin time induced by warfarin.  
 Acetylsalicylic acid  Tadalafil (10 mg and 20 mg) did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by acetyl salicylic acid.  
 P-glycoprotein substrates (e.g. digoxin)  Tadalafil (40 mg once per day) had no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin.  
 Oral contraceptive pill  At steady-state, tadalafil (40 mg once per day) increased ethinylestradiol exposure (AUC) by 26% and Cmax by 70% relative to oral contraceptive administered with placebo. There was no statistically significant effect of tadalafil on levonorgestrel which suggests the effect of ethinylestradiol is due to inhibition of gut sulphation by tadalafil. The clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain.  
 Terbutaline  A similar increase in AUC and C max seen with ethinylestradiol may be expected with oral administration of terbutaline, probably due to inhibition of gut sulphation by tadalafil. The clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain. 
 
