4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Lonafarnib is metabolised by CYP3A4 and 3A5 and is also known to be a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. Hence, it autoinhibits its metabolism. There is an approximately 4- fold increase in Cmax following multiple doses of lonafarnib (75 mg twice daily for 6 days) relative to single -dose lonafarnib (75 mg). Based on the C max and AUC values , an accumulation of the active substance at steady state was evident. The same was true for the main metabolite of lonafarnib but with a reduced magnit ude. 
 Lonafarnib as victim  
 Strong CYP3A inhibitors  
 When lonafarnib was co- administered with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, in healthy adult subjects, ketoconazole (200  mg for 5  doses) increased lonafarnib (single  dose of 50 mg) C max by 3.7 -7  fold and AUC by 5.3- fold. This may lead to an increased risk of adverse reactions . Therefore, concomitant use of lonafarnib and strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Moderate CYP3A inhibitors  
 When fluconazole  (200 mg once daily for 4 days) , a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, is added to a multiple -dose lonafarnib regimen  (75 mg twice daily for 6 days  then co-administered with fluconazole  for 4 days ), differences in lonafarnib exposures are not considered clinically relevant  (no change i n Cmax and a 1.2- fold decrease in AUC) . No further inhibition besides the autoinhibitory  effect following  multiple -dose lonafarnib is observed when  addin g the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor fluconazole  to the regimen . However, a dding  lonafarnib to an existing regimen containing a moderate CYP3A inhibitor requires  caution, and a lower starting dose might be reasonable (see section s 4.2 and 4.4).  
 Weak CYP3A inhibitors  
 No drug- drug interaction studies have been conducted with a weak CYP3A inhibitor. No dose adjustment is considered necessary; however, if the concomitant use of a weak CYP3A inhibitor induces a persistent toxicity, the dose of lonafarnib should be reduced by 50% and QTc monitoring is recommended (see sections  4.2 and 6.6).  
 Strong CY P3A inducers  
 Co-administration of a single oral dose of 50 mg lonafarnib (combined with a single oral dose of 
100 mg ritonavir) following 600  mg rifampin once daily for 8 days resulted in the C max of lonafarnib being reduced by 12.5- fold and the AUC being reduced by 50 -fold, when compared to rifampin alone in healthy adult subjects. There is no efficacy data available that demonstrates lonafarnib remains effective when administered concomitantly wi th a strong CYP3A inducer. Therefore, the concomitant use of lonafarnib and a strong CYP3A inducer should be avoided, and therapeutic alternatives sought (see section  4.4).  
 Moderate CYP3A inducers  
 No interaction studies have been conducted with a moderat e CYP3A inducer. There is no efficacy data available demonstrating that lonafarnib remains effective when given concomitantly with a moderate CYP3A inducer. Therefore, the concomitant use of lonafarnib and a moderate CYP3A inducer should be avoided, and therapeutic alternatives sought (see section  4.4). 
 Weak CYP3A inducers  
 No interaction studies have been conducted with a weak CYP3A inducer. There is no efficacy data available demonstrating that lonafarnib remains effective when given concomitantly with a weak CYP3A inducer. Therefore, the concomitant use of lonafarnib and a weak CYP3A inducer should be avoided, and therapeutic alternatives sought (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). If co- administration with a weak CYP3A inducer is unavoidable, maintain the current dose of lonafarnib. If the patient has not already been escalated to the maintenance dose of 150  mg/m2 twice daily, the timing of their scheduled dose increase should be maintained.  
 Foods and select juices that affect the metabolism of lonafarnib  
 Grape fruit, cranberries, pomegranate and Seville oranges ( e.g., orange marmalade), otherwise known as sour or bitter oranges, inhibit the CYP3A system. Ingestion of food or juices containing these fruits should be avoided while taking lonafarnib (see section 4.2).  
  Lonafarnib as perpetrator 
 CYP3A4 substrates  8   Lonafarnib is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. When lonafarnib was co -administered with CYP3A4 substrate midazolam in healthy adult subjects, multiple -dose lonafarnib (100  mg twice daily for 5 consecutive days) increased midazolam (single 3  mg oral dose) C max by 2.8 -fold and AUC by 7.4- fold. This interaction thereby increases the risk of extreme sedation and respiratory depression. Therefore, concomitant use of lonafarnib and midazolam is contraindicated (see sections  4.2, 4.3 and 4.4).  
 No interaction studies have been conducted with HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors . The HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin are all dependent on CYP3A for metabolism. Lonafarnib is a potent in vivo  CYP3A mechanism -based inhibitor and, when given concomitantly with either atorvastatin, lovastatin , or simvastatin, lonafarnib is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of these statins. This results in an increased risk of myopathy including rhabdomyolysis. Therefore, concomitant use of lonafarnib and atorvastatin, lovastatin and simvastatin are contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 Loperamide  
 When lonafarnib was co- administered with loperamide in healthy adult subjects, multiple -dose lonafarnib (100 mg twice daily for 5 consecutive days) increased loperamide (single 2  mg oral dose) Cmax by 3.1 -fold and AUC by 4.0 -fold. The dose of loperamide should not exceed 1 mg daily  (see section  4.4). In the event more than 1  mg of loperamide daily is to be administered, the dose should be slowly increased with caution as needed to treat diarrhoea.  
 CYP2C19 substrates  
 When lonafarnib was co- administered with the CYP2C19 substrate omeprazole in healthy  adult subjects, multiple -dose lonafarnib (75 mg twice daily for 5 consecutive days) increased omeprazole (single 40 mg oral dose) C max by 28% and AUC by 60%. Patients taking medicinal products that are CYP2C19 substrates should be monitored during this pe riod for potential adverse reactions, with dose adjustments made as necessary . 
 MATE1 and MATE2 -K 
 Based on  in vitro  data, lonafarnib is a MATE1/MATE2 -K inhibitor at clinically relevant maximal systemic concentrations and could potentially precipitate a cl inically relevant interaction. Currently, the only identified clinically relevant substrate of MATE1/MATE2 -K is metformin. Concomitant use of metformin and lonafarnib should be avoided. If metformin is required, clinicians should carefully monitor the pati ent for interactions with lonafarnib.  
 P-glycoprotein  substrates 
 When lonafarnib was co- administered with the P -glycoprotein substrate fexofenadine in healthy adult subjects, multiple dose lonafarnib (100 mg twice daily for 5  consecutive days) increased fexofenadine (single 180 mg oral dose) Cmax by 21% and AUC by 24%. When lonafarnib is co-administered with P-glycoprotein substrates ( e.g., digoxin, dabigatran) where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious or life -threatening toxicities, monitor for adverse reactions and reduce the dose of the P-glycoprotein substrate in accordance with its approved product labelling. 
 OCT1 substrates  
 In vitro  studies indicate that lonafarnib is an OCT1 inhibitor at clinically relevant systemic concentrations. However, the clinical relevance is currently unknown.  
 Oral contraceptives  
 9  There have been no studies assessing the interaction of concomitant lonafarnib and an oral contraceptive. Females of childbearing potential must use effective contraception  during treatment with Zokinvy and for at least 1  week  after the final dose  (see section  4.6). 
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
