4.5 Interaction with other medicinal produ cts and other forms of interaction  
 Potential for other medicinal products to affect ulipristal acetate : 
 Hormonal contraceptives  Ulipristal acetate has a steroid structure and acts as a selective progesterone receptor modulator with predominantly inhibito ry effects on the progesterone receptor. Thus hormonal contraceptives and progestagens are likely to re duce ulipristal acetate  efficacy by competitive action on the progesterone receptor . Therefore concomitant  administration of medicinal products containing progestagen is not recommended (see section  4.4 and 4.6) . 
 CYP3A4 inhibitors  Following administration  of the moderate CYP3A4 inh ibitor erythromycin propi onate (500 mg twice daily for 9 days) to healthy female volunteers, C max and AUC of uliprista l acetat e increased 1. 2 and 
2.9 fold, respectively; the AUC of the active metabolite of ulipristal acetate incr eased 1.5 fold while the C max of the ac tive metabolite decreased (0.52  fold change).  
 Following administration of the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazol e (400 mg once  daily for 7 days) to healthy female volunteers, C max and AUC of uliprista l acetate incre ased 2 and 5.9 fold, respec tively; 5 the AUC of the active metabolite of ulipristal acetate increased 2.4 fold while the C max of the ac tive metabolite decr eased (0.53 fold change).  
 No dose adjustment is con sidered necessary for administration of  ulipristal acetate to patients receivi ng concomitant mild  CYP3A4 inhibitors. Co -administration of moderate or potent CYP3A4 inhibitors and ulipristal acetate is not  recommended  (see section  4.4).  
 CYP3A4 inducers  Administration of the potent CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin  (300 mg twice daily for 9  days) to healthy female volunteers markedly decreased C max and AUC of ulipristal acetate and its active metabolite by 
90% or m ore and decreased ulipristal acetate half -life by 2.2- fold corresponding to an approximately 
10-fold de crease of ulipristal acetat e exposure. Concomitant use of ulipristal acetate and potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, carbamazepine, oxcar bazepine, phen ytoin, fosphenytoin, phenobarbital, pr imidone, St John´s wort , efavirenz, nevirapine, lon g term use of ritonavir ) is not recommended  (see section  4.4). 
 Medicinal products affecting gastric p 
 H  Administr ation of ulipristal  acetate (10  mg table t) together wi th the proton pump inhibitor esomeprazole (20  mg daily for 6 days) resulted in approximat ely 65% lower mean C max, a de layed t max (from a median of 0.75 hours to 1.0 hours) and 13% higher mean AUC. This effect of medicinal products that increa se gastric p 
 H is not expected to be of clinical rele vance for daily administration of ulipristal acetat e tablets.  
 Potential for u lipristal acetate to affect other medicinal products:  
 Hormonal contraceptives  Ulipristal acetate may interfere with the actio n of hormonal contraceptive medicinal products (prog estagen only, progestagen releasing devices or combined oral contraceptive pil ls) and progestagen administered for other reasons. Therefore concomitant administration of medicinal products containing prog estagen i s not  recommended (see sections 4.4 and 