4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No interaction studies have been performed. Clinically significant interactions between  trastuzumab and the concomitant medicinal products used in clinical trials have not been observed.  
 Effect of trastuzumab on the pharmacokinetics of other antineoplastic agents  
 Pharmacokinetic data from studies BO15935 and M77004 in women with HER2- positive MBC suggested that exposure to paclitaxel and doxorubicin (and their major metabolites 6- α hydroxyl-paclitaxel, POH, and doxorubicinol, DOL) was not altered in the presence of trastuzumab (8  mg/kg or 
4 mg/kg  intravenous loading dose followed by 6 mg/kg q3w or 2 mg/kg q1w intravenous, respectively).  However, trastuzumab may elevate the overall exposure of one doxorubicin metabolite, (7-deoxy-13 dihydro-doxorubicinone, D7D). The bioactivity of D7D and the clinical impact of the elevation of this metabolite w ere unclear.  
 Data from study JP16003, a single -arm study of trastuzumab (4 mg/kg intravenous loading dose and 
2 mg/kg intravenous weekly) and docetaxel (60 mg/m
2 intravenous) in Japanese women with HER2- positive MBC, suggested that concomitant administration of trastuzumab had no effect on the single dose pharmacokinetics of docetaxel. Study JP19959 was a sub study of BO18255 (To 
 GA) performed in male and female Japanese patients with advanced gastric cancer (AGC) to study the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine and cispla tin when used with or without trastuzumab. The results of this sub study suggested that the exposure to the bioactive metabolites (e.g. 5- FU) of capecitabine was not affected by concurrent use of cisplatin or by concurrent use of cisplatin plus trastuzumab. However, capecitabine itself showed higher concentrations and a longer half-life when combined with 10 trastuzumab. The data also suggested that the pharmacokinetics of cisplatin were not affected by concurrent use of capecitabine or by concurrent use of capecitabine plus trastuzumab.  
 Pharmacokinetic data from Study H4613g/GO01305 in patients with metastatic or locally advanced inoperable HER2-positive cancer suggested that trastuzumab had no impact on the PK of carboplatin.  Effect of antineoplastic agents on trastuzumab pharmacokinetics  
 By comparison of simulated serum trastuzumab concentrations after trastuzumab monotherapy (4 mg/kg loading/2 mg/kg q1w intravenous) and observed serum concentrations in Japanese women with HER2 -positive MBC (study JP16003) no evidence of a PK effect of concurrent administration of docetaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab was found.  Comparison of PK results from two phase II studies (BO15935 and M77004) and one phase III study  (H0648g) in which patients were treated concomitantly with trastuzumab and paclitaxel and two p hase II studies in which trastuzumab was administered as monotherapy (W016229 and MO16982), in women with HER2- positive MBC indicates that individual and mean trastuzumab trough serum concentrations varied within and across studies but there was no clear e ffect of the concomitant administration of paclitaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab. Comparison of trastuzumab PK data from Study M77004 in which women with HER2- positive MBC were treated concomitantly with trastuzumab, paclitaxel and doxorubicin to trastuzumab PK data in studies where trastuzumab was administered as monotherapy (H0649g) or in combination with anthracycline plus cyclophosphamide or paclitaxel (Study H0648g), suggested no effect of doxorubicin and paclitaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab.  
 Pharmacokinetic data from Study H4613g/GO01305 suggested that carboplatin had no impact on the PK of trastuzumab.  The administration of concomitant anastrozole did not appear to influence the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab.  
 