4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Lacosamide should be used with caution in pa tients treated with medicinal products known to be associated  with PR prolongation  (including sodium channel blockin g antiepileptic medicinal products ) and in patients treated with antiarrhythmic s. However, subgroup analysi s in clinical  studies did not identify an increased magnitude o f PR prolongation in patients w ith concomitant admin istration of carbamazepine or lamo trigine. 
 In vitro data 
 Data generally suggest that lacosamide has a low intera ction potential. In vitro studies indicate that the enzymes CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2C9 are not induced and that CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1 are not inhibit ed by lacosamide at plasma concentrations observed in clinical  studies. An in vitro study indicated that lacosamide is not  transported by P -glycoprotein  in the intestine . In vitro data show that CYP2C9, C YP2C19 and  CYP3A4 are capable of c atalysing the form ation of the O -desmethyl metabolite.  
 In vivo data 
 Lacosamide  does not inhibit or induce  CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 to a clinical ly relevant extent. Lacosamide  did not affect the AUC of mida zolam (metabolised by  CYP3A4, l acosamide given 
200 mg twice a day), but Cmax of midazolam was slightly increased (30  %). Lacosamide did  not affect the pharmacokin etics of omeprazole (metabolised by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, lacosam ide given 
300 mg twice a day).  The CYP2C19 inhibito r omeprazo le (40 mg once daily ) did not give rise to  a clinically significant change in lacosamide exposure.  Thus, moderate i nhibitors of CYP 2C19 are unlikely to affect syste mic lacosamide exposure to a c linically relevant extent.   Caution is recommended i n concomitant treatment with stron g inhibitors of CY P2C9 (e.g.  fluconazole) and CYP3A4 (e.g. itraconazole, ketocon azole, ritonavir, clarithro mycin), which may lead to increas ed systemic exposure of lacosa mide. Such interactions have no t been established in vivo, but are possible based on in vitro data. 
 Strong enzyme inducers such as rifampicin or St John’s wort (Hype ricum perforatum) may moder ately reduce the systemic exposur e of lacosamide. Therefore, st arting or ending treatment with  these enzyme inducer s should be done with caution.  
 Antiepileptic medicinal products   
 In interaction  studies lacosamide did not signi ficantly affect the plasma concentrations of carbamazepine a nd valproic acid. Lacosamide p lasma concentrations were not a ffected by carbamazep ine and by  valproic acid. Population pharmacokinetic  analyses in different age groups estimated that concomitant t reatment with other antiepileptic medicinal products  known to be enzyme inducers (carbamaz epine, phenytoin, phenobarbital , in various doses) d ecreased the overall systemic 9 exposure of lacosamide  by 25 % in adults and 17  % in paediatric patients .  
 Oral contraceptives  
 In an interact ion study there was no clinically  relevant interaction between lacosamide and the oral contraceptives ethinylestrad iol and levonorgestrel. Progestero ne concentrations were not affected when the medicinal products were co -administered. 
 Others 
 Interaction  studies showed that lacosamide ha d no effect on the pharmacokin etics of digoxin. There was no clinically relevant i nteraction between lacosamide and metformin.  Co-administration of warfarin with lacosamide does not result in a c linically relevant change i n the pharmacokinetics and pharma codynamics of warfarin.  Although no pharmacokinetic data on the interaction of lac osamide wi th alcohol are available , a pharmacodynami c effect cannot be excluded.  Lacosamide has a low protein bind ing of less than 15  %. Therefore, clinically relevant intera ctions with other medicinal pr oducts through competition for protein binding sites  are considered unlikely.  
 
