4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 The combination of niraparib with vaccines or immunosuppressant agents has not been studied.  
 The data on niraparib  in combination with cytotoxic medicinal products  are limited . Therefore,  caution should be taken if niraparib is used in combination  with vaccines, immunosuppressant agents o r with other cytotoxic medicinal products . 
 Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 Effect of other medicinal products on niraparib  
 Niraparib as a substrate of CYPs (CYP 1A2 and CYP3A4)   Niraparib is a substrate of carboxylesterases (CEs) and UDP -glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) in  vivo . Oxidative metabolism of niraparib is minimal in vivo . No dose adjustment for Zejula is required when administered concomitantly with medicinal products known to inhibit (e.g. itraconazole, ritonavir, and clarithromycin) or induce CYP enzymes (e.g. rifamp in, carbamazepine, and phenytoin).  
 Niraparib as a substrate of efflux transporters (P-gp, BCRP , BSEP, MRP2, and MATE1/2 )  Niraparib is a substrate of P -glycoprotein (P -gp) and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP). However , due to its high permeability and bioavailability, the risk of clinically relevant interactions with medicinal products that inhibit these transporters is unlikely. Therefore, no dose adjustment for Zejula is required when administered concomitantly with medicinal products known to inhibit P -gp (e.g. amiodarone, verapamil) or BCRP (e.g. osimertinib, velpatasvir, and eltrombopag).  
 Niraparib is not a substrate of bile salt export pump (BSEP) , or multidrug resistance -associated protein 
2 (MRP2) . The major primary metabolite M1 is not a substrate  of P -gp, BCRP, BSEP, or MRP2 . Niraparib is not a substrate of multidrug and toxin extrusion ( MATE )-1 or 2, while M1 is a substrate of both.  
 Niraparib as a substrate of hepatic uptake transporters (OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and OCT1)  Neither niraparib nor M1 is a substrate of organic anion transport polypeptide 1B1 (OATP1B1), 1B3 (OATP1B3), or organic cation transporter 1 (OCT1). No dose adjustment for Zejula is required when administered concomitantly with medicinal products known to inhibit OATP1B1 or 1B3 (e.g. gemfibrozil, ritonavir),  or OCT1 (e.g. dolutegravir) uptake transporters.  
 Niraparib as a substrate of renal uptake transporters (OAT1, OAT3, and OCT2)   Neither niraparib nor M1 is a substrate of organic anion transporter 1 (OAT1), 3 (OAT3), and organic cation transporter 2 (OCT2). No dose adjustment for Zejula is required when administered concomitantly with medicinal products known to inhibit  OAT1 (e.g. probenecid) or OAT3 (e.g. probenecid, diclofenac), or OCT2 uptake transporters (e.g. cimetidine, quinidine).  
 Effect of niraparib on other medicinal products  
 Inhibition of CYPs (CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4)  Neither niraparib nor M1 is an inhibitor of any active substance- metabolising CYP enzymes, namely CYP1A1/ 2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4/5 . 
 Even though inhibition of CYP3A4 in the liver  is not expected, the potential to inhi bit CYP3A4 at the intestinal level has not been established at relevant niraparib concentrations. Therefore, caution is recommended when niraparib is combined with active substances the metabolism of which is 8 CYP3A4 -dependent and, notably, those having a narrow therapeutic range  (e.g. ciclosporin, tacrolimus, alfentanil , ergot amine , pimozide, quetiapine, and halofantrine). 
 Inhibition of UDP -glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs)  Niraparib did not exhibit inhibitory effect against the  UGT isoforms (UGT1A1, UGT1A4, UGT1A9, and UGT2B7) up to 200 µ M in vitro . Therefore, the potential for a clinically relevant inhibition of UGTs by niraparib is minimal.  
 Induction of CYPs (CYP1A2 and CYP3A4)   Neither niraparib nor M1 is a CYP3A4 inducer in  vitro . In vitro , niraparib weakly induces CYP1A2 at high concentrations and the clinical relevance of this effect could not be completely ruled out . M1 is not a CYP1A2 inducer. Therefore, caution is recommended when niraparib is combined with active substances the metabolism of which is CYP1A2- dependent and, notably , those having a narrow therapeutic range  (e.g. clozapine, theophylline, and ropinirole) . 
 Inhibition of efflux transporters (P -gp, BCRP, BSEP, MRP2, and MATE1/2 )  Niraparib is not an inhibitor of BSEP  or MRP2 . In vitro , niraparib inhibits P -gp very weakly and BCRP with an IC 50 = 161 µM and 5 .8 µM, respectively. Therefore , a clinically meaningful interaction related to an inhibition of these efflux transporters , although unlikely, cannot be excluded. Caution is then recommended when niraparib is combined with substrates of BCRP (irinotecan, rosuvastatin, simvastatin , atorva statin, and methotrexa te). 
 Niraparib is an inhibitor of MATE1 and - 2 with IC
50 of 0.18 µM and ≤  0.14 µM, respectively. Increased plasma concentrations of co -administered medicinal products that are substrates of these transporters (e.g. metformin) cannot be excluded.  
 The major primary metabolite M1 does not appear to be an inhibitor of P -gp, BCRP, BSEP, MRP2 or MATE1/2 . 
 Inhibition of hepatic uptake transporters (OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and OCT1)   Neither niraparib nor M1 is an inhibitor of organic anion transport polypeptide 1B1 (OATP1B1)  or 
1B3 (OATP1B3) . 
 In vitro,  niraparib weakly inhibits the organic cation transporter 1 (OCT1) with an IC
50 = 34.4 µM. Caution is recommended when niraparib is combined with active substances that undergo an uptake transport by OCT1 such as metformin.  
 Inhibition of renal uptake transporters (OAT1, OAT3, and OCT2)   Neither niraparib nor M1 inhibits organic anion transporter 1 (OAT1), 3 (OAT3), and organic cation transporter  2 (OCT2).  
 All clinical studies have  only been performed in adults.  
 