4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other fo rms of interaction 
 Caution is advised when prescribing INVEGA with medicines known to prolong the QT interval, e.g., class IA antiarrhythmics (e.g., quinidine, disopyramide) and class III antiarrhythmics (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol), some antihistaminics, some other antipsychotics and some antimalarials (e.g., mefloquine).Potential for INVEGA to affect other medicines 
 Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with medicines that are metabolised by cytochrome P -450 isozymes. In vitro studies indicate that paliperidone is not an inducer of CYP1A2 activity.Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone (see section 4.8), INVEGA should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting medicines, e.g., anxiolytics, most antipsychotics, hypnotics, opiates, etc. or alcohol.Paliperidone may antagonise the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. If this combination is deemed necessary, particularly in end -stage Parkinson’s disease, the lowest eff ective dose of each treatment should be prescribed.Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension (see section 4.4), an additive effect may be observed when INVEGA is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential, e.g ., other antipsychotics, tricyclics.Caution is advised if paliperidone is combined with other medicines know nto lower the seizure threshold (i.e., phenothiazines or butyrophenones, clozapine, tricyclics or SSRIs, tramadol, mefloquine, etc.).No interac tion study between INVEGA and lithium has been performed, however, a pharmacokinetic interaction is unlikely to occur.Co-administration of INVEGA 12 mgonce daily with divalproex sodium prolonged -release tablets (500 mgto 2,000mgonce daily) did not af fect the steady -state pharmacokinetics of valproate. Co-administration of INVEGA with divalproex sodium prolonged -release tablets increased the exposure to paliperidone (see below).8Potential for other medicines to affect INVEGAIn vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, but there are no indications in vitro nor in vivo that these isozymes play a significant role in the metabolism of paliperidone. Concomitant administration of INVEGA with paroxeti ne, a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor, showed no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone. Invitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P -glycoprotein (P -gp) substrate.Co-administration of INVEGA once daily with carbamazepine 2 00mgtwice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady -state C maxand AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone likely as a result of induction of renal P-gp by carbamazepine. A minor decrease in the amount of active substance excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co -administration. Larger decrease s in plasma concentrations of paliperidone could occur with higher doses of carbamazepine. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA should be re -evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of IN VEGA should be re -evaluated and decreased if necessary. It takes 2 -3weeks for full induction to be achieved and upon discontinuation of the inducer the effect wears off over a similar time period. Other medicinal products or herbals which are inducers, e. g.,rifampicin and St .John´s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) may have similar effects on paliperidone.Medicinal products affecting gastrointestinal transit time may affect the absorption of paliperidone, e.g., metoclopramide.Co-administration of a single dose of INVEGA 12 mgwith divalproex sodium prolonged -release tablets (two 500 mgtablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the C maxand AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for INVEGA should be considered when INVEGA is co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment.Concomitant use of INVEGA with risperidone 
 Concomitant use of INVEGA with oral risperidone is not recommended as paliperidone is the active metabolite of risperidone and the combination of the two may lead to additive paliperidone exposure.Concomitant use of INVEGA with psychostimulants 
 The combined use of psychostimulants (e.g. ,methylphenidate) with paliperidone can lead to extrapyramidal symptoms upon change of either or both treatments (see section 4.4).Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
