4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   Gilteritinib is primarily metabolised by CYP3A enzymes, which can be induced or inhibited by a number of concomitant medicinal products. 
 Effects of other medicinal products on Xospata 
 CYP3A/P- gp inducers Concomitant use of Xospata with s trong CYP3A/P -gp inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin and St. John’s wort) should be avoided because they can decrease gilteritinib plasma concentrations. In healthy subjects, co- administration of rifampicin (600 mg), a strong CYP3A/P -gp inducer, to steady state with a single 20 mg dose of  gilteritinib decreased gilteritinib mean Cmax by 27% and mean AUC inf by 70%, respectively, compared to subjects administered a single dose of gilteritinib alone (see section  4.4).  
 CYP3A, P- gp and/or BCRP inhibitors Strong inhibitors of CYP3A, P -gp and/or BCRP  (e.g., voriconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, clarithromycin, erythromycin, captopril, carvedilol, ritonavir, azithromycin) can increase gilteritinib plasma concentrations. A single, 10 mg dose of gilteritinib co- administered with itraconazole (200 mg once daily for 28 days), a strong CYP3A, P -gp and BCRP inhibitor, to healthy subjects resulted in an approximate 20% increase in mean Cmax and 2.2- fold increase in mean AUC inf relative to subjects administered a single dose of gilterit inib alone. Gilteritinib exposure increased approximately 1.5- fold in patients with relapsed or refractory AML when co-administered with a strong CYP3A, P-gp and/or BCRP inhibitor (see section  4.4). 
 Effects of Xospata on other medicinal products 
 Gilterit inib as an inhibitor or inducer Gilteritinib is not an inhibitor or inducer of CYP3A4 or an inhibitor of MATE1 in vivo . The pharmacokinetics of midazolam (a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate) were not significantly (C max and AUC increased approximately 10%) affected after once-daily administration of gilteritinib (300 mg) for 
15 days in patients with FLT3 -mutated relapsed or refractory AML. Additionally, the pharmacokinetics of cephalexin (a sensitive MATE1 substrate) wer e not significantly (C max and AUC decreased by less than 10%) affected after once daily administration of gilteritinib (200 mg) for 
15 days in patients with FLT3 -mutated relapsed or refractory AML.  
 Gilteritinib is an inhibitor of P -gp, BCRP and OCT1 in vi tro. As no clinical data is available, it cannot be excluded that gilteritinib could inhibit these transporters at a therapeutic dose. Caution is advised during co- administration of gilteritinib with substrates of P -gp (e.g., digoxin, dabigatran etexilate), BCRP (e.g., mitoxantrone, methotrexate, rosuvastatin) and OCT1 (e.g., metformin).  
 5HT
2B receptor or sigma nonspecific receptor  Based on in vitro  data, gilteritinib may reduce the effects of medicinal products that target 5HT 2B receptor or sigma nonspecific receptor (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors e.g., escitalopram, fluoxetine, sertraline). Avoid concomitant use of these medicinal product s with gilteritinib  unless use is considered essential for the care of the patient.  
