4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of in teraction 
 Medicinal products associated with bleeding risk There is an increased risk of b leeding due to the potential add itive effect. The concomitant administration of medicinal products associated with bleeding r isk should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4).  Oral anticoagulants The concomitant administration of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic a cid Zentiva with oral anticoagulants is not recommended since it may incr ease the intensity of bleeding  (see section 4.4). Although the administration of clopidogrel 75 mg/day did not modify the phar macokinetics of S-warfarin or International Normalised Ratio  (INR) in patients receiving long -term warfarin therapy, coadministration of clopidogrel with warfarin increases the ris k of bleeding because of independent effects on hemostasis.  Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors  Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva should be used with ca ution in patients who receive concomitant glycoprotein IIb/IIIa  inhibitors (see section 4.4).  
 Heparin  In a clinical study conducted in healthy subjects, clopidogrel did not necessitate modification of the heparin dose or alter the effect of heparin on coagulation. Co- administration of heparin had no effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation induced by clopidogre l. A pharmacodynamic interaction between Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic  acid Zentiva and heparin is  possible, leading to increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant  use should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4). 
 Thrombolytics  The safety of the concomitant administration of clopidogrel, fi brin or non-fibrin specific thrombolytic agents and heparins was assessed in patients with acute myocard ial infarction. The incidence of clinically significant bleeding was similar to that observed wh en thrombolytic agents and heparin are co-administered with ASA (see section 4.8). The safety of the c oncomitant administration of Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva with other thrombolyti c agents has not been formally established and should be undert aken with caution (see section 4.4). 
 NSAIDs  In a clinical study conducted in healthy volunteers, the concom itant administration of clopidogrel and naproxen increased occult gastroin testinal blood loss. Conseque ntly, the concomitant use of NSAIDs including Cox-2 inhibitors is not recommended (see section 4.4) . 
 Experimental data suggest that ibuprofen may inhibit the effect  of low dose aspirin on platelet aggregation when they are dosed concomitantly. However, the lim itations of these data and the uncertainties regarding extrapolation of ex vivo  data to the clinical situation imply that no firm conclusions can be made for re gular ibuprofen use, and no clini cally relevant effect is considered to be likely for occasional ibuprofen use (see section 5.1). 
 Metamizole Metamizole may reduce the effect of ASA on platelet aggregation  when taken concomitantly. Therefore, this combination should be used with caution in pati ents taking low dose ASA for cardioprotection . 
 SSRIs  Since SSRIs affect platelet activation and increase the risk of
 bleeding, the concomitant administration of SSRIs with clopidogrel should be undertaken with caution. 
  
 7Other concomitant therapy with clopidogrel Since clopidogrel is metabolised to its active metabolite partl y by CYP2C19, use of medicinal products that inhibit the activity of this enzyme would be expected to r esult in reduced drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel. The clinical relevance of this inter action is uncertain. As a precaution concomitant use of strong or mode rate CYP2C19 inhibitors should  be discouraged (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).  Medicinal products that are str ong or moderate CYP2C19 inhibito rs include, for example, omeprazole and esomeprazole, fluvoxamine, f luoxetine, moclobemide, voricon azole, fluconazole, ticlopidine, carbamazepine, and efavirenz. 
 Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPI) Omeprazole 80 mg once daily administered either at the same tim e as clopidogrel or with 12 hours between the administrations of the two drugs decreased the expo sure of the active metabolite by 45% (loading dose) and 40% (maintenance dose). The decrease was ass ociated with a 39% (loading dose) and 21% (maintenance dose) reduc tion of inhibition of platelet aggregation. Esomeprazole is expected to give a similar interaction with clopidogrel.    Inconsistent data on the clini cal implications of this pharmaco kinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD) interaction in terms of major cardiovascular events have been r eported from both observational and clinical studies. As a precaution, concomitant use of omeprazol e or esomeprazole should be discouraged (see section 4.4).  Less pronounced reductions of meta bolite exposure has been obse rved with pantoprazole or lansoprazole. The plasma concentrations of th e active metabolite was 20% redu ced (loading dose) and 14% reduced (maintenance dose) during concomitant treatment with pantoprazo le 80 mg once daily. This was associated with a reduction of the  mean inhibiti on of platelet aggregation by 15% and 11%, respectively. These results indi cate that clopidogrel can be ad ministered with pantoprazole. 
 There is no evidence that other  medicinal products that reduce stomach acid such as H2 blockers or antacids interfere with antipla telet activity of clopidogrel. 
 Other medicinal products A number of other clinical st udies have been conducted with clo pidogrel and other concomitant medicinal products to investigate the potential for pharmacodyn amic and pharmacokinetic (PK) interactions. No clinically si gnificant pharmacodynamic interac tions were observed when clopidogrel was co-administered with atenol ol, nifedipine, or both atenolol  and nifedipine. Furthermore, the pharmacodynamic activity of clopidogrel was not significantly i nfluenced by the co-administration of phenobarbital or oestrogen.  The pharmacokinetics of digoxin or theophylline were not modifi ed by the co-administration of clopidogrel. Antacids did not modify the extent of clopidogrel absorption. 
 Data from the CAPRIE study indi cate that phenytoin and tolbutam ide which are metabolised by CYP2C9 can be safely co-admin istered with clopidogrel. 
 CYP2C8 substrate medicinal prod ucts: Clopidogrel has been shown  to increase repaglinide exposure in healthy volunteers. In vitro  studies have shown the increase in repaglinide exposure is due  to inhibition of CYP2C8 by the glucuronide metabolite of clopidogr el. Due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations, concomita nt administration of clopidogre l and drugs primarily cleared by CYP2C8 metabolism (e.g., repag linide, paclitaxel) should be und ertaken with caution (see section 4.4). 
 Other concomitant therapy with ASA  Interactions with the following medicinal products have been reported with ASA: 
 Uricosurics (benzbromarone, probenecid, sulfinpyrazone)  
 8Caution is required because ASA ma y inhibit the effect of urico suric agents through competitive elimination of uric acid.  Methotrexate  Due to the presence of ASA, methotrexate used at doses higher t han 20 mg/week should be used with caution with Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva as it can  inhibit renal clearance of methotrexate, which may lead to bone marrow toxicity.   Tenofovir Concomitant administration of t enofovir disoproxil fumarate and  NSAIDs may increase the risk of renal failure.  Valproic acid The concomitant administration of salicylates and valproic acid  may result in decreased valproic acid protein binding and inhibition of valproic acid metabolism resu lting in increased serum levels of total and free valproic acid.  Varicella vaccine It is recommended that patients not be given salicylates for an  interval of six weeks after receiving the varicella vaccine. Cases of Reye’s syndrome have occurred follo wing the use of salicylates during varicella infections (see section 4.4).  Acetazolamide Caution is recommended when co-administering salicylates with a cetazolamide as there is an increased risk of metabolic acidosis. 
 Nicorandil In patients concomitantly r eceiving nicorandil and NSAIDs
 including ASA and LAS, there is an increased risk for severe complica tions such as gastrointestina l ulceration, perforation and haemorrhage (see section 4.4). 
 Other interactions with ASA  Interactions with the following medicinal products with higher (anti-inflammatory) doses of ASA have also been reported: angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibit ors, phenytoin, beta blockers, diuretics, and oral h ypoglycemic agents.  
 Alcohol Alcohol may increase the risk of gastrointestinal injury when t aken with ASA. Patients should be counseled about the risks of gastrointestinal injury and bleedi ng while taking clopidogrel plus ASA with alcohol, especially if alc ohol consumption is chronic or h eavy. (See section 4.4.) 
 Other interactions with clopidogrel and ASA  More than 30,000 patients entered into clinical trials with clo pidogrel plus ASA at maintenance doses lower than or equal to 325 mg, a nd received a variety of concom itant medicinal products including  diuretics, beta blockers, ACE Inhibitors, calcium antagonists, cholesterol lowering agents, coronary vasodilators, antidiabetic agent s (including insulin), antiepil eptic agents and GPIIb/IIIa antagonists without evidence of clinically s ignificant adverse interactions . 
 Apart from the specific medicinal product interaction informati on described above, interaction studies with Clopidogrel/Acetylsalicylic acid Zentiva and some medicina l products commonly administered in patients with atherothrombotic disease have not been performed.  
 As with other oral P2Y12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioi d agonists has the potential to delay and reduce the absorption of clopido grel presumably because of slow ed gastric emptying. The clinical relevance is unknown. Consider th e use of a parenteral antiplat elet agent in acute coronary syndrome patients requiring co-administra tion of morphine or other opioi d agonists. 
  
 9 
