4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effect of pomalidomide  on other medicinal products  
 Pomalidomide is not anticipated to cause clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions due to P450 isoenzyme  inhibition or induction or transporter inhibition when co -administered with substrates of these enzymes or transporters. The potential for such interactions, including the potential impact of pomalidomide on the pharmacokinetics  of combined oral contraceptives, has not been evaluated clinically (see section  4.4 Teratogenicity) . 
 Effect of other medicinal products on pomalidomide  
 Pomalidomide is partly metabolised by CYP1A2 and CYP3A4/5.  It is also a substrate for P -glycoprotein.  Co-administration of pomalidomide with the strong CYP3A4/5 and P -gp inhibitor 14 ketoconazole, or the strong CYP3A4/5 inducer carbamazepine, had no clinicall y relevant effect on exposure to pomalidomide.  Co-administration of the strong CYP1A2 inhibitor fluvoxamine with pomalidomide in the presence of ketoconazole, increased mean exposure to pomalidomide by 107% with a 90% confidence interval [ 91% to 124%] compared to pomalidomide plus ketoconazole.  In a second study to evaluate the contribution of a CYP1A2 inhibitor alone to metabolism changes, co -administration of fluvoxamine alone with pomalidomide increased mean exposure to pomalidomide by 125% with a 90% co nfidence interval [98% to 157%] compared to pomalidomide alone. If strong inhibitors of CYP1A2 (e.g. ciprofloxacin, enoxacin and fluvoxamine) are co-administered with pomalidomide, reduce the dose of pomalidomide by 50% . 
 Dexamethasone  
 Co-administration o f multiple doses of up to 4 mg pomalidomide with 20  mg to 40 mg dexamethasone (a weak to moderate inducer of several CYP enzymes including CYP3A) to patients with multiple myeloma had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of pomalidomide compared with pomalidomide administered alone.  
 The effect of dexamethasone on warfarin is unknown. Close monitoring of warfarin concentration is advised during treatment.  
 
