4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Effects of other medicinal products on lomitapide and other forms of interaction Table 2: Interactions between Lojuxta and other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  Medicinal products Effects on lomitapide levels  Recommendation concerning co-administration with Lojuxta  Inhibitors of CYP3A4 
 Strong and moderate inhibitors  When lomitapide 60 mg was co-administered with ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, lomitapide AUC increased approximately 27-fold and Cmax increased approximately 15 -fold.  Interactions between moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors and lomitapide have not been studied. 
 Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors are predicted to have a substantial impact on lomitapide’s pharmacokinetics. Concomitant use of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors are expected to increase lomitapide exposure by 4-10 fold based on the results of the study with the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole and on historical data for the model CYP3A4 probe midazolam.  Strong and moderate inhibitors  Use of strong or moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 is contraindicated with Lojuxta. If treatment with antifungal azoles (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, fluconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole); the antiarrhythmic dronedarone;  macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, clarithromycin); ketolide antibiotics (e.g., telithromycin); HIV protease inhibitors; the calcium channel blockers diltiazem and verapamil is unavoidable, therapy with Lojuxta should be suspended during the course of treatment (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). Grapefruit juice is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4 and is expected to substantially increase exposure to lomitap ide. Patients taking Lojuxta should avoid consumption of grapefruit juice.  
 10 Medicinal products Effects on lomitapide levels  Recommendation concerning co-administration with Lojuxta  Weak inhibitors  Weak CYP3A4 inhibitors are expected to increase the exposure of lomitapide when taken simultaneously.  When lomitapide 20 mg was co-administered simultaneously with atorvastatin, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, lomitapide AUC and Cmax increased approximately 2-fold. When the dose of lomitapide was taken 12 hours apart from atorvastatin, no clinically meaningful increase in lomitapide exposure  was observed.  When lomitapide 20 mg was co -administered simultaneously or 12 hours apart with ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate, a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor, no clinically meaningful increase in lomitapide exposure was observed.  Weak inhibitors  When administered  with atorvastatin, the dose of Lojuxta should either be taken 
12 hours apart or be decreased by half (see section 4.2). The dose of Lojuxta should be taken 12 hours apart from any other concomitant weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. Examples of weak CYP3A4 inhibitor s include: alprazolam, amiodarone, amlodipine, atorvastatin, azithromycin,  bicalutamide, cilostazol, cimetidine, ciclosporin, clotrimazole, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, fosaprepitant, ginkgo, goldenseal, isoniazid, ivacaftor, lacidipine, lapatinib, linagliptin,  nilotinib, oestrogen -containing oral contraceptives, pazopanib, peppermint oil, propiverine,  ranitidine, ranolazine, roxithromycin,  Seville oranges, tacrolimus, ticagrelor  and tolvaptan . This list is not intended to be comprehensive and prescribers shoul d check the prescribing information of medicinal products to be co-administered with Lojuxta for potential CYP3A4 mediated interactions.  The effect of administration of more than one weak CYP3A4 inhibitor has not been tested, but the effect on the exposure  of lomitapide is expected to be greater than for co-administration of the individual inhibitors with lomitapide. Exercise additional caution if administering more than 1 weak CYP3A4 inhibitor with Lojuxta.  Inducers of CYP3A4  Medicines that induce CYP3A4 would be expected to increase the rate and extent of metabolism of lomitapide. Consequently, this would reduce the effect of lomitapide. Any impact on efficacy is likely to be variable.  When co -administering CYP3A4 inducers (i.e., aminoglutethimide, nafcillin, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, phenobarbital, rifampicin, carbamazepine, pioglitazone, St John’s Wort, glucocorticoids, modafinil and phenytoin) with Lojuxta, the possibility of a drug-drug interaction af fecting efficacy should be considered. It is recommended to increase the frequency of LDL -C assessment during such concomitant use and consider increasing the dose of Lojuxta to ensure maintenance of the desired level of efficacy if the CYP3A4 inducer is i ntended for chronic use.  11 Medicinal products Effects on lomitapide levels  Recommendation concerning co-administration with Lojuxta  Bile acid sequestrants  Lomitapide has not been tested for interaction with bile acid sequestrants ( resins such as colesevelam and cholestyramine).  Because bile acid sequestrants can interfere with the absorption of oral medicines, bile acid sequestrants should be taken at least 4 hours before or at least 4  hours after Lojuxta.  
 Effects of lomitapide on other medicinal products  
 HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors (“statins”)  Lomitapide increases plasma concentrations of statins. When lomitapide 60  mg was administered to steady state prior to simvastatin 40  mg, simvastatin acid AUC and C max increased 68% and 57%, respectively. When lomitapide 60 mg was administered to steady state prior to atorvastatin 20  mg, atorvastatin acid AUC and C max increased 52% and 63%, respectively. When lomitapide 60 mg was administered to steady state prior to rosuvastatin 20 mg, rosuvastatin T max increased from 1 to 4 hours, AUC was increased 32%, and its C max was unchanged. The risk of myopathy with simvastatin is dose related. Use of Lojuxta is contraindicated in patients treated  with high doses of simvastatin (> 40 mg) (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).  
 Coumarin anticoagulants  When lomitapide 60 mg was administered to steady state and 6  days following warfarin 10 mg, INR increased 1.26 -fold. AUCs for R(+)-warfarin and S( -)-warfarin increased 25% and 30%, respectively. Cmax for R(+) -warfarin and S( -)-warfarin increased 14% and 15%, respectively. In patients taking coumarins (such as warfarin) and Lojuxta concomitantly, INR should be determined before starting Lojuxta and monitored regularly with dosage of coumarins adjusted as clinically indicated (see section 4.4). 
 Fenofibrate, niacin and ezetimibe  When lomitapide was administered to steady state prior to micronised fenofibrate 145  mg, extended release niacin 1  000 mg, or ezetimibe 10  mg, no clinically significant effects on the exposure of any of these medicinal products were observed. No dose adjustments are required when co -administered with Lojuxta . 
 Oral contraceptives  When lomitapide 50 mg was administered to steady state along with an oestrogen -based oral contraceptive, no clinically meaningful or statistically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of the components of the oral contraceptive (ethinyl estradiol and 17- deacetyl norgestimate, the metabolite of norgestimate) was observed. Lomitapide is not expected to directly influence the efficacy of oestrogen  based oral contraceptives; however diarrhoea and/or vomiting may reduce hormone absorption. In cases of protracted or severe diarrhoea and/or vomiting lasting more than 2 days, additional contraceptive measures should be used for 7 days after resolution of symptoms.  
 P-gp substrates Lomitapide inhibits P-gp in vitro , and may increase the absorption of P -gp substrates. Coadministration of Lojuxta with P gp substrates (such as aliskiren, ambrisentan, colchicine, dabigatran etexilate, digoxin, everolimus, fexofenadine, imatinib, lapatinib, maraviroc, nilotinib, posaconazole, ranolazine, saxagliptin, sirolimus, sitagliptin, talinolol, tolvaptan, topotecan) may increase the absorption of P gp substrates. Dose reduction of the P gp substrate should be considered when used concomitantly with Lojuxta.  
 In vitro assessment of drug interactions Lomitapide inhibits CYP3A4. Lomitapide does not induce CYPs 1A2, 3A4, or 2B6, and does not inhibit CYPs 1A2, 2B6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, or 2E1. Lomitapide is not a P -gp substrate but does inhibit P-gp. Lomitapide does not inhibit breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). 
 12 