4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Medicinal products associated with bleeding risk : There is an increased risk of bleeding due to the potential additive effect. The concomitant administration of medicinal products associated with bleeding risk should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4) . 
 Oral anticoagulants The concomitant administration of clopidogrel with o ral anticoagulants is not recommended since it may increase the intensity of bleedings (see section 4.4).  Although the administration of clopidogrel 75 mg/day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S- warfarin or International Normalised Ratio (INR) in patients receiving long -term warfarin therapy, coadministration of clopidogrel with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding because of independent effects on hemostasis. 
 Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors  Clopidogrel should be used with caution in patients who receive concomitant glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (see section 4.4). 
 Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA)  ASA did not modify the clopidogrel-mediated inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation, but clopidogrel potentiated the effect of ASA on collagen-induced platelet aggregation. However, concomitant administration of 500 mg of ASA twice a day for one day did not significantly increase the prolongation of bleeding time induced by clopidogrel intake. A pharmacodynamic interaction between clopidogrel and acety lsalicylic acid is possible, leading to increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4). However, clopidogrel and ASA have been administered together for up to one year (see section  5.1). 
 Heparin  In a clinical study conducted in healthy subjects, clopidogrel did not necessitate modification of the heparin dose or alter the effect of heparin on coagulation. Co- administration of heparin had no effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation induced by clopidogrel. A pharmacodynamic interaction between clopidogrel and heparin is possible, leading to increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4). 
 Thrombolytics  The safety of the concomitant administration of clopidogrel, fibrin or non- fibrin specific thrombolytic agents and heparins was assessed in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The incidence of clinically significant bleeding was similar to that observed when thrombolytic agents a nd heparin are co-administered with ASA (see section 4.8).  
 NSAIDs  In a clinical study conducted in healthy volunteers, the concomitant administration of clopidogrel and naproxen increased occult gastrointestinal blood loss. However, due to the lack of int eraction studies with other NSAIDs it is presently unclear whether there is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding with all NSAIDs. Consequently, NSAIDs including Cox-2 inhibitors and clopidogrel should be co -administered with caution (see section 4.4). 
 SSRIs  6 Since SSRIs affect platelet activation and increase the risk of bleeding, the concomitant administration of SSRIs with clopidogrel should be undertaken with caution. 
 Other concomitant therapy   Since clopidogrel is metabolised to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19, use of medicinal products that inhibit the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in reduced drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel. The clinical relevance of this interaction is uncertain. As a precaut ion concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors should be discouraged (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).  Medicinal products that are strong or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors include , for example, omeprazole and esomeprazole, fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, moclobemide, voriconazole, fluconazole, ticlopidine, carbamazepine, and  efavirenz . 
 Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPI):  Omeprazole 80 mg once daily administered either at the same time as clopidogrel or with 12 hours between the administrations of the two drugs decreased the exposure of the active metabolite by 45% (loading dose) and 40% ( maintenance dose). The decrease was associated with a 39% (loading dose) and 21% (maintenance dose) reduction of inhibition of platelet aggregation.  Esomeprazole is expected to give a similar interaction with clopidogrel.  
 Inconsistent data on the clinical implications of this pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD) interaction in terms of major cardiovascular events have been reported from both observational and clinical studie s. As a precaution, concomitant use of omeprazole or esomeprazole should be discouraged (see section 4.4).  
 Less pronounced reductions of metabolite exposure has been observed with pantoprazole or lansoprazole.  The plasma concentrations of the active metab olite was 20% reduced (loading dose) and 14% reduced (maintenance dose) during concomitant  treatment with pantoprazole 80 mg  once daily. This was associated with a reduction of the mean inhibition of platelet aggregation by 15% and 11%, respectively . These results indicate that clopidogrel can be administered with pantoprazole. 
 There is no evidence that other medicinal products that reduce stomach acid such as H2 blockers or antacids interfere with antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel.  
 Other medicinal pro ducts:  A number of other clinical studies have been conducted with clopidogrel and other concomitant medicinal products to investigate the potential for pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions. No clinically significant pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when clopidogrel was co- administered with atenolol, nifedipine, or both atenolol and nifedipine. Furthermore, the pharmacodynamic activity of clopidogrel was not significantly influenced by the coadministration of phenobarbital or oestrogen.  The pharmacokinetics of digoxin or theophylline were not modified by the co- administration of clopidogrel. Antacids did not modify the extent of clopidogrel absorption.  Data from the CAPRIE study indicate that phenytoin and tolbutamide which are metabo lised by CYP2C9  can be safely co -administered with clopidogrel.  
 CYP2C8 substrate medicinal products: Clopidogrel has been shown to increase repaglinide exposure in healthy volunteers. In vitro  studies have shown the increase in repaglinide exposure is due to inhibition of CYP2C8 by the glucuronide metabolite of clopidogrel. Due to the risk of increased plasma concentrations, concomitant administration of clopidogrel and drugs primarily cleared by CYP2C8 metabolism (e.g., repaglinide, paclitaxel) should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4) . 
 
 7 Apart from the specific medicinal product interaction information described above, interaction studies with clopidogrel and some medicinal products commonly administered in patients with atherothrombotic disease have not been performed. However, patients entered into clinical trials with clopidogrel received a variety of concomitant medicinal products including diuretics, beta blockers, ACEI, calcium antagonists, cholesterol lowering agents, coronary vasodilators, antidiabetic agents (including insulin), antiepileptic agents, and GPIIb/IIIa antagonists without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions.  
 
