4.5 Interaction with other m edicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Avacopan is a substrate of CYP3A4. Co -administration of inducers or inhibitors of this enzyme may affect the pharmacokinetics of avacopan.  
 Effect of strong CYP3A4 inducers on avacopan 
 Co-administration of  avacopan with rifampicin, a strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducer, resulted in a decrease in area-under -the-concentration time curve (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of avacopan by approximately 93% and 79%, respectively. Since this interaction may result in loss of efficacy of avacopan, the use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampicin, and St. John’s Wort) with avacopan is to be avoided  (see section  4.4). Patients anticipated to require long- term administration of these medicinal products  are not to be treated with avacopan. If short -term co -administration cannot be avoided in a patient already using avacopan, the patient must be closely monitored for any reoccurrence of disease activity.  
 Effect of moderate CYP3A4 inducers on avacopan  
 Exercise c aution when using moderate CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, and modafinil) prescribed as concomitant medicinal product  with avacopan  and carefully evaluate the benefit /risk of avacopan.  
 Effect of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors on avacopan 
 Co-administration of avacopan with itraconazole, a strong CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitor, resulted in an increase in AUC and C max of avacopan by approximately  2.2-fold and 1.9-fold , respectively. Therefore, strong CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir/ritonavir, mibefradil, nefazodone, nelfinavir, posaconazole, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, telithromycin, and voriconazole) should be used with caution in patients who are being treated with avacopan. Patients must be  monitored for potential increase of side effects due to the increased exposure of avacopan.  
 Grapefruit and grapefruit juice can increase the concentration of avacopan; therefore, grapefruit and grapefruit juice  are to be avoided in patients treated with avacopan.  
 Effect of avacopan on other medicinal products  
 Avacopan is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 in  vivo and may increase the plasma exposures of concomitant medici nal products  that are CYP3A4 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., alfentanil, ciclosporin , dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, sirolimus and tacrolimus). Be cautious when these medicinal products are used with avacopan. P atients  must be managed according to the summary of product characteristics of the respective medicin al products  with a narrow therapeutic index.  
 Effect of macrogolglycerol hydroxystearate on sensitive P-glycoprotein ( P-gp) substrates  
 A clinically relevant effect of the excipient macrogolglycerol hydroxystearate on sensitive P -gp substrates with relatively low bioavailability  (e.g., dabigatran etexilate)  cannot be excluded. Exercise caution  when using low -bioavailability P-gp substrates in patients who are being treated with avacopan . 
 7 