4.5 and 4.2). In patients who develop atrial fibrillation on therapy with Calquence, a thorough assessment of the risk for thromboembolic disease should be undertaken. In patients at high risk for thromboembolic disease, tightly controlled treatment with anticoagu lants and alternative treatment options to Calquence should be considered.Other medicinal products 
 Co-administration of strong CYP3A inhibitors with Calquence may lead to increased acalabrutinib exposure and consequently a higher risk for toxicity. On t he contrary, co -administration of CYP3A inducers may lead to decreased acalabrutinib exposure and consequently a risk for lack of efficacy. Concomitant use with strong CYP3A inhibitors should be avoided. If these inhibitors will be used short -term (such as anti-infectives for up to seven days), treatment with Calquence should be interrupted. Patients should be closely monitored for signs of toxicity if a moderate CYP3A inhibitor is used (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). Concomitant use with strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided due to risk for lack of efficacy.Calquence contains sodium 
 This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium -free’.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Acalabrutinib and its active metabolite are primarily metabolised by cytochrome P450 enzyme 3A4 (CYP3A4), and both substances are substrates for P -gp and breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP).7Active substances that may increase ac alabrutinib plasma concentrations 
 CYP3A/P -gp inhibitors 
 Co-administration with a strong CYP3A/P -gp inhibitor (200 mg itraconazole once daily for 5 days) increased acalabrutinib C maxand AUC by 3.9 -fold and 5.0 -fold in healthy subjects (N=17), respectively.Concomitant use with strong CYP3A/P -gp inhibitors should be avoided. If the strong CYP3A/ P-gp inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, conivaptan, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, ritonavir, telaprevir, posaconazole, voriconazole) will be used short -term, treatment with Calquence should be interrupted (see section 4.2).Co-administration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors (400 mg fluconazole as single dose or 200 mg isavuconazole as re peated dose for 5 days) in healthy subjects increased acalabrutinib C maxand AUC by 
1.4-fold to 2 -fold while the active metabolite ACP -5862 C maxand AUC was decreased by 0.65 -fold to 
0.88-fold relative to when acalabrutinib was dosed alone. No dose adjustm ent is required in combination with moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Monitor patients closely for adverse reactions (see Section 4.2).Active substances that may decrease acalabrutinib plasma concentrations 
 CYP3A inducers 
 Co-administration of a strong CYP3A inducer (600 mg rifampicin once daily for 9 days) decreased acalabrutinib C maxand AUC by 68% and 77% in healthy subjects (N=24), respectively.Concomitant use with strong inducers of CYP3A activity (e.g., phenytoin, rifampicin, carbamazepine) should be a voided. Concomitant treatment with St. John’s wort, which may unpredictably decrease acalabrutinib plasma concentrations, should be avoided. Gastric acid reducing medicinal products 
 Acalabrutinib solubility decreases with increasing p 
 H. Co -administratio n of acalabrutinib with an antacid (1 g calcium carbonate) decreased acalabrutinib AUC by 53% in healthy subjects. Co -administration with a proton pump inhibitor (40 mg omeprazole for 5 days) decreased acalabrutinib AUC by 43%.If treatment with an acid r educing agent is required, consider using an antacid (e.g., calcium carbonate), or an H2 -receptor antagonist (e.g., ranitidine or famotidine). For use with antacids, the interval between taking the medicinal productshould be at least 2 hours (see section 4 .2). For H2 -receptor antagonists, take Calquence should be taken 2 hours before (or 10 hours after) taking the H2 -receptor antagonist.Due to the long -lasting effect of proton pump inhibitors, separation of doses with proton pump inhibitors may not elimina te the interaction with Calquence and therefore concomitant use should be avoided (see section 4.2).Active substances whose plasma concentrations may be altered by Calquence 
 CYP3A substrates 
 Based on in vitro data, it cannot be excluded that acalabrutinib is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 at the intestinal level and may increase the exposure of CYP3A4 substrates sensitive to gut CYP3A metabolism. Caution 8should be exercised if co -administering acalabrutinib with CYP3A 4 substrates with narrow therapeutic range administered orally (e.g. ,cyclosporine, ergotamine, pimozide ). Effect of acalabrutinib on CYP1A2 substrates In vitro studies indicate that acalabrutinib induces CYP1A2. Co -administration of acalabrutinib with 
 CYP1A2 substrates (e.g. ,theophylline, caffeine) may decrease their exposure.Effects of acalabrutinib and its active metabolite, ACP -5862, on medicinal product transport systems 
 Acalabrutinib may increase exposure to co -administered BCRP substrates (e.g., methotrexate) by inhibition of intestinal BCRP (see section 5.2). To minimise the potential for an interaction in the Gastrointestinal (GI) tract, oral narrow therapeutic range BCRP substrates such as methotrexate should be taken at least 6 hours be fore or after acalabrutinib.ACP -5862 may increase exposure to co -administered MATE1 substrates (e.g., metformin) by inhibition of MATE1 (see section 5.2). Patients taking concomitant medicinal products with disposition dependent upon MATE1 (e.g. ,metform in) should be monitored for signs of changed tolerability as a result of increased exposure of the concomitant medication whilst receiving Calquence.
