4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other form s of interaction  
 Active substances that may increase dasatinib plasma concentrations In vitro  studies indicate that dasatinib is a CYP3A4 substrate. Concomitant use of dasatinib and medicinal products or substances which potently inhibit CYP3A4 (e.g. ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, ritonavir, telithromycin, grapefruit juice) may increase exposure to dasatinib. Therefore, in patients receiving dasatinib, systemic administration of a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor is not recommended (see section 4.2). 
 At clinically relevant concentrations, binding of dasatinib to plasma proteins is approximately 96% on the basis of in vitro  experiments. No studies have been performed to evaluate dasatinib interaction with other protein -bound medicinal products. The potential for displacement and its clinical relevance are unknown.  
 Active substances that may decrease das atinib plasma concentrations  When dasatinib was administered following 8  daily evening administrations of 600 mg rifampicin, a potent CYP3A 4 inducer, the AUC of dasatinib was decreased by 82%. Other medicinal products that induce CYP3A4 activity (e.g. dexamethasone, phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or herbal preparations containing Hypericum perforatum, also known as St.  John´s  Wort) m ay also increase metabolism and decrease dasatinib plasma concentrations. Therefore, concomitant use of potent  CYP3A4  inducers with dasatinib is not recommended. In patients in whom rifampicin or other CYP3A4 inducers are indicated, alternative medicinal products with less enzyme induction potential should be used. Concomitant use of dexamethasone, a weak CYP3A4 inducer,  with dasatinib is allowed; dasatinib AUC is predicted to decrease approximately 25% with concomitant use of dexamethasone, which is not li kely to be clinically meaningful.  
 Histamine-2 antagonists and proton pump inhibitors  Long-term suppression of gastric acid secretion by H 2 antagonists or proton pump inhibitors (e.g. famotidine and omeprazole) is likely to reduce dasatinib exposure. In a single -dose study in healthy subjects, the administration of famotidine 10 hours prior to a single dose of SPRYCEL re duced dasatinib exposure by 61%. In a study of 14 healthy subjects, administration of a single 100 -mg dose  12 of SPRYCEL 22  hours following a 4-day, 40-mg omeprazole dose at steady state reduced the AUC of dasatinib by 43% and the C max of dasatinib by 42%. The use of antacids should be considered in place of H 2 antagonists or proton pump inhibitors in patients receiving SPRYCEL therapy (see sect ion 4.4). 
 Antacids  Non-clinical data demonstrate that the solubility of dasatinib is p 
 H -dependent. In healthy subjec ts, the concomitant use of aluminium hydroxide/magnesium hydroxide antacids with SPRYCEL reduced the AUC of a single dose of SPRYCEL by 55%  and the C max by 58%. However, when antacids were administered 2  hours prior to a single dose of SPRYCEL, no relevant  changes in dasatinib concentration or exposure were observed. Thus, antacids may be administered up to 2  hours prior to or 
2 hours followi ng SPRYCEL (see section  4.4). 
 Active substances that may have their plasma concentrations altered by dasatinib  Concomitant use of dasatinib and a CYP3A4 substrate may increase exposure to the CYP3A4 substrate. In a study in healthy subjects, a single 100  mg dose of dasatinib increased AUC and Cmax exposure to simvastatin, a known CYP3A4 substrate, by 20 and 37% respectively. It cannot be excluded that the effect is larger after multiple doses of dasatinib. Therefore, CYP3A4 substrates known to have a narrow therapeutic index (e.g. astemizole, terfenadine, cisapride, pimozide, quinidine, bepridil or ergot alkaloids [ergotamine, dihydroergotamine]) should be administered with caution in patients receiving dasatinib (see section  4.4). In vitro  data indicate a potential risk for interaction with CYP2C8 substrates, such as glitazones.  
 Paediatric population  Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 