4.5 and 5.2).  
 Excipients  
 Dovprela  contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems such as galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose -galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine.  Dovprela  contains less than 1  mmol sodium (23  mg) per tablet, that is to say essential ly “sodium -free”.  
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of other medicinal products on pretomanid  
 CYP3A4 inducers  Pretomanid is metabolized in part by CYP3A4. In consequence, exposure to pretomanid may be reduced during co -administration with inducers of CYP3A4. In interaction studies of multiple -dose pretomanid with multiple -dose rifampicin or efavirenz, the AUC 0-24h of pretomanid was reduced by 
66% or 35%, respectively. Due to the possibility of a reduction of the therapeutic effect of pretomanid due to a decrease in systemic exposure, co -administration of pretomanid and moderate or strong  
6 CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. efavi renz, etravirine, rifamycins including rifampicin, rifapentine and rifabutin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, St. John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum )) used systemically should be avoided (see section 4.4).  
 In an interaction study of multiple -dose pretomanid with  multiple -dose ritonavir -boosted -lopinavir, the AUC 0-24h of pretomanid was reduced by 17%.  
 Effects of pretomanid on other medicinal products  
 Effect on CYP2C8, 2C9 and 2C19  substrates  In vitro  studies show that pretomanid is an inducer of CYP2C8 while th e studies are inconclusive regarding the potential of pretomanid to induce CYP2C9 and 2C19. In vivo induction cannot be excluded as no clinical studies have been performed. If pretomanid is co -administered with substrates of CYP2C8, 2C9 and 2C19, e.g., pac litaxel, warfarin, mephenytoin, prescribers and their patients should be observant for potentially reduced efficacy of these substrates.  
 Effect on OAT3 , OATP1B3, P -gp and BCRP  substrates  Pretomanid is an inhibitor of the OAT3 transporter in vitro , which could result in increased concentrations of OAT3 substrate medicinal products clinically and may increase the risk of adverse reactions of these medicines.  If pretomanid is co-administered with OAT3 substrate medicinal products (e.g., methotrexate, benzylpenicillin, indomethacin, ciprofloxacin), monitoring for OAT3 substrate drug -related adverse reactions should be performed and dosage reductions for OAT3  substrate medicinal product should be considered, if needed (see section 4.4).  
 In vitro  studies indicate that pretomanid is an inhibitor of BCRP, OATP1B3 and P -gp. No clinical studies have been performed to investigate these interactions. Therefore, it cannot be excluded t hat co-administration of pretomanid with sensitive OATP1B3 substrates (e.g., valsartan, statins), BCRP substrates (e.g. rosuvastatin, prazosin, glyburide, sulfasalazine) and P -gp substrates (e.g. digoxin, dabigatran etexilate, verapamil) may increase their  exposure. If pretomanid is co -administered with substrates of OATP1B3, BCRP or P -gp, monitoring for drug -related adverse reactions to the co -administered medicinal product should be performed.    
 
