4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Clinically significant drug interactions mediated by  fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol at clinical doses are considered unlikely due to the low plasma concentrations achieved after inhaled dosing.  
 Interaction with beta -blockers  
 Beta 2-adrenergic blockers may weaken or antagonise the effect of beta 2-adrenergic agonists , such as vilanterol . If beta- blockers are required, cardioselective beta -blockers should be considered, however, caution should be exercised during concurrent use of both non- selective and selective beta- blockers . 
 Interaction with CYP3A4 inhibitor  
 Fluticasone furoate and vilanterol are rapidly cleared by extensive first  pass metabolism mediated by enzyme CYP3A4.  
 Caut ion is advised when co -administering with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole , ritonavir , cobicistat -containing products ) as there is potential for increased systemic exposure to both fluticasone furoate and vilanterol, which could lead to an increased potential for adverse reactions. Co -administration should be avoided unless the benefit outweighs the increased risk of syste mic corticosteroid adverse reactions , in which case patients should be monitored for systemic corticosteroid adverse reactions. A repeat dose study was performed in healthy subjects with the fluticasone furoate/vilanterol combination (184/22 micrograms) an d ketoconazole (400 milligrams, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ). Co-administration increased mean fluticasone furoate AUC(0-24) and C max by 36% and 33%, respectively. The increase in fluticasone furoate exposure was associated with a 27% reduction in 0- 24 hour s weighted mean serum cortisol.  Co-administration increased mean vilanterol AUC (0-t) and C max by 65% and 22%, respectively. The increase in vilanterol exposure was not associated with an increase in beta 2-agonist related systemic effects on heart rate  or blood potassium . 
 Interac tion with CYP2D6 inhibitors/CYP2D6 polymorphism  
 Umeclidinium is a substrate of cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6). The steady- state pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium was assessed in healthy volunteers lack ing CYP2D6 (poor metabolisers).  No effect on umeclidinium AUC or C max was observed at a dose  8-fold higher than the therapeutic dose . An approximately 1.3- fold increase in umeclidinium AUC was observed at 16- fold higher dose with no effect on umeclidinium C max. Based on the magnitude of these changes, no clinically relevant drug interaction is expected when fluticasone furoate/ umeclidinium/vilanterol is co -administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors or when administered to patients  who are  genetically deficient in CYP2D6 activity ( poor metabolisers).  
 Interaction with P -glycoprotein inhibitors  
 Fluticasone furoate, umeclidinium and vilanterol are substrates of the P -glycoprotein transporter (P -gp). The effect of the moderate P -gp inhibitor verapamil (240 mg once daily) on the steady- state pharmacokinetics of umeclidinium and vilanterol was assessed in healthy volunteers.  No effect of verapamil was observed on umeclidinium or vilanterol Cmax. An approximately 1.4 -fold increase in umeclidinium AUC was observed with no effect on vilanterol AUC.  Based on the magnitude of these changes, no clinically relevant drug interaction is expected when fluticasone furoate/ umeclidinium/vilanterol is co-administered with P -gp inhibitors. Clinical pharmacology studies with a specific P -gp inhibi tor and fluticasone f uroate have not been conducted.  
 7 Other  long acting antimuscarinic s and long acting beta 2- adrenergic agonist s 
 Co-administration of Trelegy Ellipta with other long- acting muscarinic antagonists  or long- acting beta 2- adrenergic agonists has not been studied and is not recommended  as it may potentiate the adverse reactions (see section s 4.8 and 4.9) . 
 Hypokalaemia  
 Concomitant hypokalaemic treatment with methylxanthine derivatives, steroids, or non- potassium -sparing diuretics may potentiate the possible hypokalaemic effect of beta 2-adrenergic agonists, therefore caution should be exercised (see section 4.4).  
 
