4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 The safety and efficacy of concurrent use of tralokinumab with live and live attenuated vaccines has not been studied.  5  Immune responses to non- live vaccines were assessed in a study in which adult patients with atopic dermatiti s were treated with an initial dose of 600  mg (four 150 mg injections) followed by 300 mg every second (other) week administered as subcutaneous injection. After 12 weeks of tralokinumab administration, patients were vaccinated with a combined tetanus, dip htheria, and acellular pertussis vaccine, and a meningococcal vaccine and immune responses were assessed 4 weeks later. Antibody responses to both tetanus vaccine and meningococcal vaccine were similar in tralokinumab -treated and placebo- treated patients. No adverse interactions between either of the non -live vaccines or tralokinumab were noted in the study. Therefore, patients receiving tralokinumab may receive concurrent inactivated or non- live vaccinations.  
 For information on live and live attenuated v accines , see section  4.4. 
 Interactions with cytochrome  P450 
 Tralokinumab is not expected to undergo metabolism by hepatic enzymes or renal elimination. Clinically relevant interactions between tralokinumab and inhibitors, inducers, or substrates of metabolising enzymes are not expected, and no dose adjustment is needed . 
 The effects of tralokinumab on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of CYP substrates, caffeine (CYP1A2), warfarin (CYP2C9), metoprolol (CYP2D6), omeprazole (CYP2C19) and midazolam (CYP3A), were evaluated in atopic dermatitis patients after repeated administration.  No effects were observed for caffeine and warfarin. Small numeric al changes, which were not clinically significant, were observed for Cmax of omeprazole, AUC of metoprolol and AUC and C max of midazolam (the largest difference being for midazolam C max with a decrease of 22%). Therefore, clinically relevant impact of tralokinumab on the pharmacokinetics of concomitant medicinal  products metabolised by the CYP enzymes is not expected . 
 
