4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of other medicinal products on darifenacin Darifenacin metabolism is primarily mediated by the cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. Therefore, inhibitors of these enzymes may increase darifenacin exposure.  
 CYP2D6 inhibitors  In patients receiving substances that are potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g.  paroxetine, terbinafine, cimetidine and quinidine) the recommended starting dose should be 7.5 mg daily. The dose may be titrated to 15  mg daily to obtain an improved clinical response provided the dose is well tolerated. Concomitant treatment with potent CYP2D6 inhibitors results in an increase in exposure (e.g. of 33% with 20  mg paroxetine at the 30  mg dose of darifenacin).  
 CYP3A4 inhibitors  Darifenacin should not be used together with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (see section 4.3) such as protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir), ketoconazole and itraconazole. Potent P -glycoprotein inhibitors such as ciclosporin and verapamil should also be avoided. Co- administration of darifenacin 7.5  mg with the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole 400 mg resulted in a 5 -fold increase in steady -state darifenacin AUC. In subjects who are poor metabolisers, darifenacin exposure increased approximately 10- fold. Due to a greater contribution of CYP3A4 after higher darifenacin doses, the magnitude of the effect is expected to be ev en more pronounced when combining ketoconazole with darifenacin 15  mg. 
 When co -administered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, fluconazole and grapefruit juice, the recommended starting dose of darifenacin should be 7.5  mg daily. The dose may be titrated to 15 mg daily to obtain an improved clinical response provided the dose is well tolerated. Darifenacin AUC
24 and C max from 30  mg once daily dosing in subjects who are extensive metabolisers were 95% and 12 8% higher when erythromycin (moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor) was co- administered with darifenacin than when darifenacin was taken alone.  
 Enzyme inducers  Substances that are inducers of CYP3A4, such as rifampicin, carbamazepine, barbiturates and St John’ s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) are likely to decrease the plasma concentrations of darifenacin.  
 Effects of darifenacin on other medicinal products  CYP2D6 substrates  Darifenacin is a moderate inhibitor of the enzyme CYP2D6. Caution  should be exercised when darifen acin is used concomitantly with medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2D6 and which have a narrow therapeutic window, such as flecainide, thioridazine, or tricyclic antidepressants such as imipramine. The effects of darifenacin on the  metabolism of CYP2D6 substrates are mainly clinically relevant for CYP2D6 substrates which are individually dose titrated.  
 CYP3A4 substrates  Darifenacin treatment resulted in a modest increase in the exposure of the CYP3A4 substrate midazolam. However th e data available do not indicate that darifenacin changes either midazolam clearance or bioavailability. It can therefore be concluded that darifenacin administration does not alter the pharmacokinetics of CYP3A4 substrates in vivo . The interaction with mi dazolam lacks clinical relevance, and therefore no dose adjustment is needed for CYP3A4 substrates . 
 Warfarin  Standard therapeutic prothrombin time monitoring for warfarin should be continued. The effect of warfarin on prothrombin time was not altered when co -administered with darifenacin.  
 Digoxin Therapeutic drug monitoring for digoxin should be performed when initiating and ending darifenacin treatment as well as changing the darifenacin dose. Darifenacin 30  mg once daily (two times greater than the recommended daily dose) co- administered with digoxin at steady state resulted in a small 5 increase in digoxin exposure (AUC: 16% and C max: 20%). The increase in digoxin exposure could be caused by competition between darifenacin and digoxin for P -glycoprotein. Other transporter -related interactions cannot be excluded.  
 Antimuscarinic agents  As with any other antimuscarinic agents, concomitant use of medicinal products that possess antimuscarinic properties, such as oxybutynin, tolterodine and flavoxa te, may result in more pronounced therapeutic and side effects. The potentiation of anticholinergic effects with anti -parkinson agents and tricyclic antidepressants may also occur if antimuscarinic agents are used concurrently with such medicinal products.  However, no studies involving the interaction with anti -parkinson agents and tricyclic antidepressants have been performed.  
 
