4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Because basiliximab  is an immunoglobulin, no metabolic drug -drug interactions are to be expected.  
 In addition to ciclosporin for microemulsion, steroids, azathioprine and m ycophenolate mofetil, other concomitant medications routinely administered in organ transplantation have been administered in clinical trials without any incremental adverse reactions. These concomitant medications include systemic antiviral, antibacterial  and antimycotic medications, analgesics, antihypertensive medications such as beta -blocking agents or calcium channel blockers, and diuretics.  
 Human antimurine antibody (HAMA) responses were reported in a clinical trial of 172  patients treated with basil iximab , without predictive value for clinical tolerability. The incidence was 2/138  in patients not exposed to muromonab -CD3 (OKT3) and 4/34  in patients who received muromonab -CD3 concomitantly. The use of basiliximab  does not preclude subsequent treatment  with murine antilymphocyte antibody preparations.  
 In the original phase  III studies during the first 3  months post -transplantation, 14% of patients in the basiliximab  group and 27% of patients in the placebo group had an acute rejection episode treated with antibody therapy (OKT 3 or antithymocyte globulin/ antilymphocyte globulin [ATG/ALG ]), with no increase in adverse events or infections in the basiliximab  group as c ompared to placebo.  
 Three clinical trials have investigated basiliximab  use in combination with a triple therapy regimen which included either azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil. The total body clearance of basiliximab  was reduced by an average 22 % when azathioprine was added to a regimen consisting of ciclosporin for microemulsion and corticosteroids. The total body clearance of basiliximab  was reduced by an average 51 % when mycophenolate mofetil was added to a regimen consisting of ciclosporin for microemulsion and corticosteroids. The use of basiliximab  in a triple therapy regimen including azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil did not increase adverse events or infections in the basiliximab  group as compared to placebo (see section  4.8). 
 
