4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Tirzepatide delays gastric emptying  and thereby has the potential to impact the rate of absorption of concomitantly administered oral medicinal products.  This effect, resulting in decreased Cmax and a delayed t max, is most pronounced at the time of tirzepatide treatment initiation.  
 Based on the results from a study with paracetamol, which was used as a model medicinal product to evaluate the effect of tirzepatide on gastric emptying, n o dose adjustments are expected to be required for most  concomitant ly administered oral  medicinal products . However, it is recommended to m onitor patients on oral medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., warfarin , digoxin ), especially at initiation of tirzepatide  treatment and following dose increase.  The risk of delayed effect should also be considered for oral medicinal products for which a rapid onset of effect is of importance.  
 Paracet amol  
 Following a 5 mg single dose of tirzepatide, the  maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of paracetamol was reduced by 50  %, and the median (t max) was delayed by  1 hour. The effect of tirzepatide on the oral absorption of paracetamol is dose and time dependent. At low doses (0.5 and 1.5  mg), there was only a minor change in paracetamol exposure. After four consecutive weekly doses of tirzepatide (5/5/8/10  mg), no effect on the paracetamol C max and t max was observed.  The o verall exposure (AUC) was not influenced. No dose adjustment of paracetamol is necessary when administered with tirzepatide.  
 7 Oral contraceptives 
 Administration of a combination oral contraceptive (0. 035 mg ethinyl estradiol plus 0. 25 mg norgestimate, a prodrug of nor elgestromin) in the presence of a single dose of tirzepatide ( 5 mg) resulted in a reduction of oral contraceptive C max and area under the curve (AUC) . Ethinyl estradiol Cmax was reduced by 59 % and AUC by  20 % with a  delay in t max of 4 hours . Norelgestromin C max was reduced by 55 % and AUC by  23 % with a  delay in t max of 4.5 hours. Norgestimate C max was reduced by 66 %, and AUC by  20 % with a  delay in t max of 2.5 hours.  This reduction in exposure after a single dose of tirzepatide is not considered clinically relevant.   No dose adjustment of oral contraceptives is required . 
 
