4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent 
 Ritonavir has a high affinity for several cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms and may inhibit oxidation with the following ranked ord er: CYP3A4 > CYP2D6.  Co -administration of ritonavir and medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other medicinal product, which could increase or prolong its therapeutic and adverse effects.  For select edmedicinal products (e.g. alprazolam) the inhibitory effects of ritonavir on CYP3A4 may decrease over time.  Ritonavir also has a high affinity for P -glycoprotein and m ay inhibit this transporter.  The inhibitory effect of ritonavir (with or wi thout other protease inhibitors) on P -gp activity may decrease over time ( e.g.digoxin and fexofenadine -see table “Ritonavir effects on non -antiretroviral medicinal products” below ).  Ritonavir may induce glucuronidation and oxidation by CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 thereby increasing the biotransformation of some medicinal products metabolised by these pathways, and may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could decease or shorten their therapeutic effect .  Important information regarding medicinal product interactions when ritonavir is used as a pharmacokinetic enhancer is also contained in the Summary of Product Characteristics of the co-administered protease inhibitor.12Medicinal products that affect ritonavir l evels 
 Serum levels of ritonavir can be reduced by concomitant use of herbal preparations containing St 
 John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum).   This is due to the induction of medicinal product metabolising enzymes by St John’s wort.  Herbal preparations cont aining St John’s wort must not be used in combination with ritonavir.  If a patient is already taking St John’s wort, St John’s wort should be stopped and if possible check viral levels.  Ritonavir levels may increase on stopping St John’s wort.  The dose of ritonavir may need adjusting.  The inducing effect may persist for at least 2 weeks after cessation of treatment with St John’s wort (see section 4.3).  Serum levels of ritonavir may be affected by select co -administered medicinal products (e.g.delav irdine, efavirenz, phenytoin and rifampicin) .  These interactions are noted in the medicinal product interaction tables below.Medicinal product that are affected by the use of ritonavir 
 Interactions between ritonavir and protease inhibitors, antiretroviral agents other than protease inhibitors and other non -antiretroviral medicinal products are listed in the tables below.   This list is not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive.  Individual Sm 
 PCs should be consulted.Medicinal Product Inte ractions –Ritonavir with Protease Inhibitors 
 Co-administered Medicinal Product 
 Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Product (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Medicinal Product Assessed 
 AUC Cmin 
 Amprenavir 600 q12h 100 q12h Amprenavir1↑ 64% ↑ 5 fold 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of amprenavir as a result of CYP3A4 inhibition.  Clinical trials confirmed the safety and efficacy of 600 mg amprenavir twice daily with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily.  For further information, physicians should refer to the Summa ry of Product Characteristics for amprenavir .Atazanavir 300 q24h 100 q24h Atazanavir ↑ 86% ↑ 11 fold 
 Atazanavir2↑ 2 fold ↑ 3-7 fold 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of atazanavir as a result of CYP3A4 inhibition.  Clinical trials confirmed the safety  and efficacy of 300 mg atazanavir once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily in treatment experienced patients.  For further information, physicians should refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for atazanavir .Darunavir 600, single 100q12h Darunavir ↑ 14 fold 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of darunavir as a result of CYP3A inhibition.  Darunavir must be given with ritonavir to ensure its therapeutic effect.  Ritonavir doses higher than 
100mg twice daily have not been studied with darunavir.  For further information, refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for darunavir .Fosamprenavir 700 q12h 100 q12h Amprenavir ↑ 2.4 fold ↑ 11 fold 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of amprenavir (from fosamprenavir) as a result of CYP3A4 inhibition.  Fosamprenavir must be given with ritonavir to ensure its therapeutic effect.  Clinical trials confirmed the safety and efficacy of fosamprenavir 700 mg twice daily with ritonavir 
100mg twice daily.  Ritonavir doses higher than 100 mg twice daily have not been studied with fosamprenavir.  For further information, physicians should refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for fosamprenavir .Indinavir 800 q12h 100 q12h Indinavir3↑ 178% NDRitonavir ↑ 72% ND
400 q12h 400 q12h Indinavir3↔ ↑ 4 fold Ritonavir ↔ ↔13Ritonavir increases the serum levels of indinavir as a result of CYP3A4 inhibition.  Appropriate doses for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established.  Minimal benefit of ritonavir -mediated pharmacokinetic enhancement is achieved with doses higher than 100 mg twice daily.  In cases of co -administration of ritonavir (100 mg twice daily) and indinavir (800 mg twice daily) caution is warranted as the risk of nephrolithiasis may be increased.  Nelfinavir 1250 q12h 100 q12h Nelfinavir ↑ 20to39% ND
750, single 500 q12h Nelfinavir ↑ 152% NDRitonavir ↔ ↔Ritonavir increases the serum levels of nelfinavir as a result of CYP3A4 inhibition.  Appropriate doses for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established.  Minimal benefit of ritonavir -mediated pharmacokinetic enhancement is achieved with doses higher than 100 mg twice daily.Saquinavir 1000 q12h 100 q12h Saquinavir4↑ 15-fold ↑ 5-fold 
 Ritonavir ↔ ↔
400 q12h 400 q12h Saquinavir4↑ 17-fold NDRitonavir ↔ ↔Ritonavir increases the serum levels of saquinavir as a result of CYP3A4 inhibition.  Saquinavir should only be given in combination with ritonavir.  Ritonavir 100 mg twice daily with saquinavir 1000 mg twice daily provides saquinavir systemic exposure ove r 24 hours similar to or greater than those achieved with saquinavir 1200 mg three times daily without ritonavir.   In a clinical study investigating the interaction of rifampicin 600 mg once daily and saquinavir 
1000 mg with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily in healthy  volunteers, severe hepatocellular toxicity with transaminase elevations up to > 20-fold the upper limit of normal after 1 to 5 days of co-administration was noted.  Due to the risk of severe hepatoxicity, saquinavir/ritonavir should not be give n together with rifampicin.For further information, physicians should refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for saquinavir .Tipranavir 500 q12h 200 q12h Tipranavir ↑ 11 fold ↑ 29 fold 
 Ritonavir ↓ 40% NDRitonavir increases the serum levels of tipranavir as a result of CYP3A inhibition.  Tipranavir must be given with low dose ritonavir to ensure its therapeutic effect.  Doses of ritonavir less than 200 mg twice daily should not be used with tipranavir as they might alter the efficacy o f the combination.  For further information, physicians should refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for tipranavir .ND: Not determined.
1.Based on cross -study  comparison to 1200 mg amprenavir twice daily alone.
2.Based on cross -study  comparison to 400mg atazanavir once daily alone.
3.Based on cross -study  comparison to 800 mg indinavir three times daily alone.
4.Based on cross -study  comparison to 600 mg saquinavir three times daily alone.14Medicinal product interactions –Ritonavir with antiretroviral agents other than protease inhibitors 
 Co-administered Medicinal Product 
 Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Product (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Medicinal Product Assessed 
 AUC Cmin 
 Didanosine 200 q12h 600 q12h 2 h later 
 Didanosine ↓ 13%  ↔As ritonavir is recommended to be taken with food and didanosine should be taken on an empty stomach, dosing should be separated by 2.5 h.  Dose alterations should not be necessary.Delavirdine 400 q8h 600 q12h Delavirdine1↔ ↔Ritonavir ↑ 50% ↑ 75%Based on comparison to historical data, the pharmacokinetics of delavirdine did not appear to be affected by ritonavir.  When used in combination with delavirdine, dose reduction of ritonavir may be considered.Efavirenz 600 q24h 500 q12h Efavirenz ↑ 21%Ritonavir ↑ 17%A higher frequency of adverse reactions (e .g., dizziness, nausea, paraesthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes) have been observed when efavirenz is co -administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent.Maraviroc 100q12h 100 q12h Maraviroc ↑161% ↑28%Ritonavir increases the serum levels of maraviroc as a result of CYP3A inhibition.  Maraviroc may be given with ritonavir to increase the maraviroc exposure.  For further information, refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for maraviroc .Nevirapi ne 200 q12h 600 q12h Nevirapine ↔ ↔Ritonavir ↔ ↔Co-administration of ritonavir with nevirapine does not lead to clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of either nevirapine or ritonavir.Raltegravir 400 single 100 q12h Raltegravir ↓ 16% ↓ 1%Co-adminsitration of ritonavir and raltegravir results in a minor reduction in raltegravir levels 
 Zidovudine 200 q8h 300 q6h Zidovudine ↓ 25% NDRitonavir may induce the glucuronidation of zidovudine, resulting in slightly decreased levels of zidovudine.  Dose alterations should not be necessary.ND: Not determined
1.  Based on parallel group comparison.15Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Alpha 1-Adrenoreceptor Antagonist 
 Alfuzosin Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of alfuzosin and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Amphetamine Derivatives 
 Amphetamine Ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent is likely to inhibit CYP2D6 and as a result is expected to increase concentrations of amphetamine and its derivatives.  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when these medicines are concomitantly administered with antiretroviral doses of ritonav ir (see section 
4.4).Analgesics 
 Buprenorphine 16 q24h 100 q12h ↑ 57% ↑ 77%Norbuprenorphine ↑ 33% ↑ 108%Glucuronide metabolites  The increases of plasma levels of buprenorphine and its active metabolite did not lead to clinically significant pharmacodynamic changes in a population of opioid tolerant patients.  Adjustment to the dose of buprenorphine or ritonavir may therefore not be necessary when the two are dosed together.  When ritonavir is used in combination with another prote ase inhibitor and buprenorphine, the SPC of the co-administered protease inhibitor should be reviewed for specific dosing information.Pethidine, propoxyphene Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of norpethidine and propoxyphene and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).Fentany l Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of fenta nyl.  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects (including respiratory depression) is recommended when fentanyl is concomitantly administered with ritonavir.Methadone15, single dose 500 q12h, ↓ 36% ↓ 38% Increased methadone dose may be necessary when concomitantly administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer due to induction of glucuronidation.  Dose adjustment should be considered based on the patient’s cli nical response to methadone therapy.  Morphine Morphine levels may be decreased due to induction of glucuronidation by co -administered ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.16Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Antianginal 
 Ranolazine Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of ranolazine are expected to increase.  The concomitant administration with ranolazine is contraindicated (see section 4.3).Antiarrthymics 
 Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, encainide, flecainide, propafenone, quinidine 
 Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, encainide, flecainide, propafenone, and quinidine and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).Digoxin 0.5 single IV dose 300 q12h, 3 days ↑ 86% ND
0.4 single oral dose 200 q12h, 13 days ↑ 22% This interaction may be due to modification of P -glycoprotein mediated digoxin efflux by ritonavir dosed as an antriretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  Incr eased digoxin levels observed in patients receiving ritonavir may lessen over time as induction develops (see section 4.4).  Antiasthmatic 
 Theophylline13mg/kg q8h 500 q12h ↓ 43% ↓ 32% An increased dose of theophylline may be required when co -administered with ritonavir, due to induction of CYP1A2.Anticancer agents and kinase inhibitors 
 Afatinib 20mg, single dose
40mg, single dose
40mg, single dose200 q12h/1h before
200 q12h/ co -administered
200 q12h/6h after↑ 48% 
↑ 19%
↑ 11%↑ 39% 
↑ 4%
↑ 5%Serum concentrations may be increased due to Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) and acute P -gp inhibition by ritonavir.  The extent of increase in AUC and Cmax depends on the timing of ritonavir administration.  Caution should be exercised in administering afatinib with Norvir (refer to the afatinib Sm 
 PC).  Monitor for ADRs related to afatinib.Abemaciclib Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A4 inhibition by ritonavir.Co-administration of abemaciclib and Norvir should be avoided.  If this co-administration is judged unavoidable, refer to the abemaciclib Sm 
 PC for dosage adjustment recommendations.  Monitor for ADRs related to abemaciclib.17Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Apalutamide Apalutamide is a moderate to strong CYP3A4 inducer and this may lead to a decreased exposure of ritonavir and potential loss of virologic response.  In addition, serum concentrations may be increased when co -administered with ritonavir resulting in the potential for serious adverse events including seizure.  Conc omitant use of ritonavir with apalutamide is not recommended.Ceritinib Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A and P -gp inhibition by ritonavir.  Caution should be exercised in administering ceritinib with Norvir.  Refer to the ceritinib Sm 
 PC for dosage adjustment recommendations.  Monitor for ADRs related to ceritinib.Dasatinib, nilotinib, vincristine, vinblastine 
 Serum concentrations may be increased when co -administered with ritonavir resulting in the potential for increased incidence of adverse events.Encorafenib Serum concentrations may be increased when co -administered with ritonavir which may increase the risk of toxicity, including the risk of serious adverse events such as QT interval prolongation.  Co -administration of encorafen ib and ritonavir should be avoided.  If the benefit is considered to outweigh the risk and ritonavir must be used, patients should be carefully monitored for safety.Fostamatinib Co-administration of fostamatinib with ritonavir may increase fostamatinibmetabolite R406 exposure resulting in dose -related adverse events such as hepatotoxicity, neutropenia, hypertension, or diarrhoea.  Refer to the fostamatinib Sm 
 PC for dose reduction recommendations if such events occur.Ibrutinib Serum concentrations of ibrutinib may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, resulting in increased risk for toxicity including risk of tumor lysis syndrome.  Co -administration of ibrutinib and ritonavir should be avoided.  If the benefit is considered to outweigh th e risk and ritonavir must be used, reduce the ibrutinib dose to 140 mg and monitor patient closely for toxicity.Neratinib Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A4 inhibition by ritonavir.Concomitant use of neratinib with Norvir is contraind icated due to serious and/or life-threatening potential reactions including hepatotoxicity (see section 4.3).Venetoclax Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, resulting in increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome at th e dose initiation and during the ramp -up phase (see section 4.3 and refer to the venetoclax Sm 
 PC).For patients who have completed the ramp -up phase and are on a steady daily dose of venetoclax, reduce the venetoclax dose by at least 75% when used with st rong CYP3A inhibitors (refer to the venetoclax Sm 
 PC for dosing instructions).18Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Anticoagulants 
 Dabigatran etexilate 
 Edoxaban 
 Serum concentrations may be increased due to P -gp inhibition by ritonavir. Clinical monitoring and/or dose reduction of the direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC) should be considered when a DOAC transported by P -gp but not metabolised by CYP3A4, including dabigatran etexilate and edoxaban, is co -administered with ritonavir .Rivaroxaban 10, single dose 600 q12h ↑ 153% ↑ 55%Inhibition of CYP3A and P -gp lead to increased plasma levels and pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban which may lead to an increased bleeding risk.  Therefore, the use of ritonavir is not recommended in patients receiving rivaroxaban.Vorapaxar Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir.  The co-administration of vorapaxar with Norvir is not recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to the vorapaxar Sm 
 PC).Warfarin 
 S-Warfarin R-Warfarin5, single dose 400 q12h 
↑ 9% 
↓ 33% ↓ 9% 
↔ Induction of CYP1A2 and CYP2C9 lead to decreased levels of R -warfarin while little pharmacokinetic effect is noted on S -warfarin when co -administered with ritonavir.  Decreased R-warfarin levels may lead to reduced anticoagulation, therefore it is recommended that anticoagulation parameters are monitored when warfarin is co -administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.Anticonvulsants 
 Carbamazepine Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of carbamazepine.  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when carbamazepine is concomitantly administered with ritonavir.Divalproex, lamotrigine, phenytoin Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent induces oxidation by CYP2C9 and glucuronidation and as a result is expected to decrease the plasma concentrations of anticonvulsants.  Careful monitoring of serum levels or therapeutic effects is recommended when these medicines are concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  Phenytoin may decrease serum level s of ritonavir.19Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Antidepressants 
 Amitriptyline, fluoxetine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline 
 Ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent is likely to inhibit CYP2D6 and as a result is expected to increase concentrations of imipramine, amitriptyline, nortriptyline, fluoxetine, paroxetine or sertraline.  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when these medicines are concomitantly administered with antiretroviral doses of ritonavir (see section 4.4).Desipr amine 100, single oral dose 500 q12h ↑ 145% ↑ 22%The AUC and C max of the 2 -hydroxy metabolite were decreased 15 and 67%, respectively.  Dosage reduction of desipramine is recommended when co -administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent.Trazodone 50, single dose 200 q12h ↑ 2.4 -fold ↑ 34%An increase in the incidence in trazodone -related adverse reactions was noted when co-administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  If trazodone is co-administered with ritonavir, the combination should be used with caution, initiating trazodone at the lowest dosage and monitoring for clinical response and tolerability.Anti-gout treatments 
 Colchicine Concentrations of colchicine are expected to increase when coadministered with ritonavir.Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine and ritonavir (CYP3A4 and P -gp inhibition) in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment (see sections 4.3 a nd 4.4).  Refer to the colchicine prescribing information.Antihistamines 
 Astemizole, terfenadine Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of astemizole and terfenadine and is therefore contraindicated (see sect ion 4.3).Fexofenadine Ritonavir may modify P -glycoprotein mediated fexofenadine efflux when dosed as an antriretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer resulting in increased concentrations of fexofenadine.  Increased fexofenadine levels may lessen over time as induction develops.Loratadine Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of loratadine.  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when loratidine is concomitantly administered with ritonavir.20Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Anti-infectives 
 Fusidic Acid Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of both fusidic acid and ritonavir and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).Rifabutin1
25-O-desacetyl rifabutin metabolite 150 daily 500 q12h, ↑ 4-fold 
↑ 38-fold ↑ 2.5 -fold 
↑ 16-fold 
 Due to the large increase in rifabutin AUC, the concomitant use of rifabutin with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  The reduction of the rifabutin dose to 150 mg 3 times pe r week may be indicated for select PIs when co -administered with ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  The Summary of Product Characteristics of the co -administered protease inhibitor should be consulted for specific recommendations.  Consideration sho uld be given to official guidance on the appropriate treatment of tuberculosis in HIV -infected patients . Rifampicin Although rifampicin may induce metabolism of ritonavir, limited data indicate that when high doses of ritonavir (600 mg twice daily) is co -administered with rifampicin, the additional inducing effect of rifampicin (next to that of ritonavir itself) is small and may have no clinical relevant effect on ritonavir levels in high -dose ritonavir therapy.  Th e effect of ritonavir on rifampicin is not known.Voriconazole 200 q12h 400 q12h ↓ 82% ↓ 66%
200 q12h 100 q12h ↓ 39% ↓ 24%Concomitant use of ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent and voriconazole is contraindicated due to reduction in voriconazole concentrations (see section 4.3).  Co-administration of voriconazole and ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole.Atovaquone Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent induces glucuronidation and as a result is expected to decrease the plasma concentrations of atovaquone.  Careful monitoring of serum levels or therapeutic effects is recommended when atovaquone is concomitantly administered with ritonavir.Bedaquiline No interaction study is available with ritonavir only.  In an interaction study of single -dose bedaquiline and multiple dose lopinavir/ritonavi r, the AUC of bedaquiline was increased by 22%.  This increase is likely due to ritonavir and a more pronounced effect may be observed during prolonged co -administration.  Due to the risk of bedaquiline related adverse events, co -administration should be avoided.  If the benefit outweighs the risk, co -administration of bedaquiline with ritonavir must be done with caution.  More frequent electrocardiogram monitoring and monitoring of transaminases is recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to the bedaquiline Summary of Product Characteristics ).21Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Clarithromycin
14-OH clarithromycin metabolite 500 q12h 200 q8h ↑ 77% 
↓ 100% ↑ 31% 
↓ 99% Due to the large therapeutic window of clarithromycin no dose reduction should be necessary in patients with normal renal function.  Clarithromycin doses greater than 
1g per day should not be co -administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  For patients with renal impairment, a clarithromycin dose reduction should be co nsidered: for patients with creatinine clearance of 30 to 60 ml/min the dose should be reduced by 50%, for patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 ml/min the dose should be reduced by 75%.Delamanid No interaction study is available with ritonavir only.  In a healthy volunteer drug interaction study of delamanid 100 mg twice daily and lopinavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg twice daily for 14 days, the exposure of the delamanid metabolite DM -
6705 was 30% increased.  Due to the risk of QTc prolongat ion associated with DM-6705, if co -administration of delamanid with ritonavir is considered necessary, very frequent ECG monitoring throughout the full delamanid treatment period is recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to the delamanid Summary of Product 
 Characteristics).Erythromycin, itraconazole Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of erythromycin and itraconazole.  Careful monitor ing of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when erythromycin or itraconazole is used concomitantly administered with ritonavir.Ketoconazole 200 daily 500 q12h ↑ 3.4 -fold ↑ 55% Ritonavir inhibits CYP3A -mediated metabolism of ketoconazole. Due to an increased incidence of gastrointestinal and hepatic adverse reactions, a dose reduction of ketoconazole should be considered when co -administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.Sulfamethoxazole/Trimethoprim2800/160, single dose 500 q12h ↓ 20% / ↑ 20% ↔Dose alteration of sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim during concomitant ritonavir therapy  should not be necessary.Antipsychotics/Neuroleptics 
 Clozapine, pimozide Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of clozapine or pimozide and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).Haloperidol, risperidone, thioridazine Ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent is likely to inhibit CYP2D6 and as a result is expected to increase concentrations of haloperidol, risperidone and thioridazine.  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when these medicines are concomitantly administered with antiretrov iral doses of ritonavir.22Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Lurasidone Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of lurasidone are expected to increase.  The concomitant administration with lurasidone is contraindicated (see section 4.3).Quetiapine Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of quetiapine are expected to increase.  Concomitant administration of Norvir and quetiapine is contraindicated as it may increase quetiapine -related toxicity (see section 4.3).
β2-agonist (long acting)Salmeterol Ritonavir inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result a pronounced increase in the plasma concentrations of salmeterol is expected.  Therefore concomitant use is not recommended.Calcium channel antagonists 
 Amlodipine, diltiazem, nifedipine Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of calcium channel antagonists.  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when these medici nes are concomitantly administered with ritonavir.Endothelin antagonists 
 Bosentan 
 Co-administration of bosentan and ritonavir may increase steady statebosentan maximum concentrations (Cmax) and area under the curve (AUC)Riociguat 
 Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A and P -gp inhibition by ritonavir.  The co -administration of riociguat with Norvir is not recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to riociguat Sm 
 PC).Ergot Derivatives 
 Dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, ergotamine, methylergonovine 
 Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of ergot derivatives and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).GI m otility agent 
 Cisapride Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of cisapride and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).HCV Direct Acting Antiviral23Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Serum concentrations may be increased due to P-glycoprotein, BCRP and OATP1Binhibition by ritonavir.Concomitant administration of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir and Norvir is not recommended due to an increased risk of ALT elevations associated with increased glecaprevir exposure.HCV Protease Inhibit or 
 Simeprevir 200 qd 100 q12h ↑ 7.2 -fold ↑ 4.7 -fold 
 Ritonavir increases plasma concentrations of simeprevir as a result of CYP3A4 inhibition.  It is not recommended to co -administer ritonavir with simeprevir.HMG Co -A Reductase Inhibitors 
 Atorvastatin, Fluvastatin, Lovastatin, Pravastatin, Rosuvastatin, Simvastatin 
 HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors which are highly dependent on CYP3A metabolism, such as lovastatin and simvastatin, are expected to have markedly increased plasma concentrations whe n co-administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  Since increased concentrations of lovastatin and simvastatin may predispose patients to myopathies, including rhabdomyolysis, the combination of these medi cinal products with ritonavir is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Atorvastatin is less dependent on CYP3A for metabolism.  While rosuvastatin elimination is not dependent on CYP3A, an elevation of rosuvastatin exposure has been reported with ritonavir c o-administration.  The mechanism of this interaction is not clear, but may be the result of transporter inhibition. When used with ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent, the lowest possible doses of atorvastatin or ro suvastatin should be administered.  The metabolism of pravastatin and fluvastatin is not dependent on CYP3A, and interactions are not expected with ritonavir.  If treatment with an HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitor is indicated, pravastatin or fluvastatin is rec ommended.Horm onal contraceptive 
 Ethiny l estradiol 50 µg, single dose 500 q12h ↓ 40% ↓ 32% Due to reductions in ethinyl estradiol concentrations, barrier or other non -hormonal methods of contraception should be considered with concomitant ritonavir use when dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  Ritonavir is likely to change the uterine bleeding profile and reduce the effectiveness of estradiol -containing contraceptives (see section 4.4).24Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Immunosupressants 
 Cyclosporine, tacrolimus, everolimus Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of cyclosporine, tacrolimus or everolimus.  Careful monitorin g of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when these medicines are concomitantly administered with ritonavir.Lipid -modifying agents 
 Lomitapide CYP3A4 inhibitors increase the exposure of lomitapide, with strong inhibitors increasing exposure approximately 27 -fold.  Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of lomitapide are expected to increase.  Concomitant use of Norvir with lomitapide is contraindicated (see prescribing information for lomitapide) (see section 4.3).Phosphodies terase (PDE5) inhibitors 
 Avanafil 50, single dose 600 q12h ↑ 13-fold ↑ 2.4 -fold 
 Concomitant use of avanafil with ritonavir is contraindicated (see section 4.3).Sildenafil 100, single dose 500 q12h ↑ 11-fold ↑ 4-fold 
 Concomitant use of sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer should be used with caution and in no instance should sildenafil doses exceed 25 mg in 48 hours (see a lso section 4.4).  Concomitant use of sildenafil with ritonavir is contraindicated in pulmonary arterial hypertension patients (see section 4.3).Tadalafil 20, single dose 200 q12h ↑ 124% ↔The concomitant use of tadalafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer should be with caution at reduced doses of no more than 10 mg tadalafil every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions (see section 4.4).When tadalafil is used concurrently with ritonavir in patients withpulmonary arterial hypertension, refer to the tadalafil Summary of Product Characteristics.Vardenafil 5, single dose 600 q12h ↑ 49-fold ↑ 13-fold 
 Concomitant use of vardenafil with ritonavir is contraindicated (see section 4.3).25Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Sedatives/hynoptics 
 Clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, oral and parenteral midazolam Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam and flurazepam and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3). Midazolam is extensively metabolised by CYP3A4.  Co -administration wi th Norvir may cause a large increase in the concentration of this benzodiazepine.  No medicinal product interaction study has been performed for the co -administration of Norvir with benzodiazepines.  Based on data for other CYP3A4 inhibitors, plasma concen trations of midazolam are expected to be significantly higher when midazolam is given orally.  Therefore, Norvir should not be co -administered with orally administered midazolam (see section 4.3), whereas caution should be used with co -administration of No rvir and parenteral midazolam.  Data from concomitant use of parenteral midazolam with other protease inhibitors suggest a possible 3 –4 fold increase in midazolam plasma levels.  If Norvir is co -administered with parenteral midazolam, it should be done i n an intensive care unit (ICU) or similar setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation.  Dosage adjustment for midazolam should be considered, especially if m ore than a single dose of midazolam is administered.Triazolam 0.125, single dose 200, 4 doses ↑ >20 fold ↑ 87%Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of triazolam and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).Pethidine Norpethidine metabolite 50, oral single dose 500 q12h ↓ 62% 
↑ 47% ↓ 59% 
↑ 87% The use of pethidine and ritonavir is contraindicated due to the increased concentrations of the metabolite, norpethidine, which has both analgesic and CNS stimulant activity.  Elevated norpethidine concentrations may increase the risk of CNS effects (e.g., seizures), see section 4.3.Alprazolam 1, single dose 200 q12h, 2 days ↑2.5 fold ↔
500 q12h, 10 days↓ 12% ↓ 16% Alprazolam metabolism was inhibited following the introduction of ritonavir.  After ritonavir use for 10 days, no inhibitory effect of ritonavir was observed.  Caution is warranted during the first several days when alprazolam is co -administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer, before induction of alprazolam metabolism develops.Buspirone Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of buspirone.  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when buspirone concomitantly administered with ritonavir.26Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Sleeping agent 
 Zolpidem 5 200, 4 doses ↑ 28% ↑ 22%Zolpidem and ritonavir may be co -administered with careful monitoring for excessive sedative effects.Smoke cessation 
 Bupropion 150 100 q12h ↓ 22% ↓ 21%
150 600 q12h ↓ 66% ↓ 62%Bupropion is primarily metabolised by CYP2B6.  Concurrent administration of bupropion with repeated doses of ritonavir is expected to decrease bupropion levels.  These effects are thought to represent induction of bupropion metabolism.  How ever, because ritonavir has also been shown to inhibit CYP2B6 in vitro, the recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded.  In contrast to long -term administration of ritonavir, there was no significant interaction with bupropion after short -term administration of low doses of ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 2 days), suggesting reduction s in bupropion concentrations may have onset several days after initiation of ritonavir co -administration.Steroids 
 Inhaled, injectable or intranasal fluticasone propionate, budesonide, triamcinolone 
 Systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression (plasma cortisol levels were noted to be decreased 86% in the above study ) have been reported in patients receiving ritonavir and inhaled or intranasal fluticasone propionate; similar effects could also occur with other co rticosteroids metabolised by CYP3A e.g., budesonide and triamcinolone.  Consequently, concomitant administration of ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer and these glucocorticoids is not recommended unless the potentia l benefit of treatment outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects (see section 4.4).  A dose reduction of the glucocorticoid should be considered with close monitoring of local and systemic effects or a switch to a glucocorticoid, which is not a substrate for CYP3A4 (e.g., beclomethasone).  Moreover, in case of withdrawal of glucocorticoids progressive dose reduction may be required over a longer period.   Dexamethasone Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral age nt inhibits CYP3A and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of dexamethasone.  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when dexamethasone is concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  Prednisolone 20 200 q12h ↑ 28% ↑ 9%Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when prednisolone is concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  The AUC of the metabolite prednisolone increased by 37 and 28% after 4 and 14 days ritonavir, respectively.27Ritonavir effects on Non -antiretroviral Co -administered Medicinal Products 
 Co-administered Medicinal Products Dose of Co -administered Medicinal Products (mg)Dose of NORVIR (mg)Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products AUC Effect on Co -administered Medicinal Products Cmax 
 Thyroid hormone replacement therapy 
 Levothyroxine Post-marketing cases have been reported indicating a potential interaction between ritonavir containing products and levothyroxine.  Thyroid -stimulating hormone (TSH) should be monitored in patients treated with levothyroxine at least the first month after starting and/or ending ritonavir treatment.ND: Not determined
1.Based on a parallel group comparison
2.Sulfamethoxazole was co -administered with trimethoprim. Cardiac and neurologic events have been reported when ritonavir has been co -administered with disopyramide, mexiletine or nefaz odone.  The possibility of medicinal product interaction cannot be excluded.In addition to the interactions listed above, as ritonavir is highly protein bound, the possibility of increased therapeutic and toxic effects due to protein binding displacement of concomitant medicinal products should be considered.Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer 
 Important information regarding medicinal product interactions when ritonavir is used a pharmacokinetic enhancer is also contained in the Summary of Product Characteristics of the co -administered protease inhibitor. Proton pump inhibitors and H 2-receptor antagonists 
 Proton pump inhibitors and H 2-receptor antagonists (e .g.omeprazole or ranitidine) may reduce concentrations for co -administered protease inhibitors.  For specific information regarding the impact of co -administration of acid reducing agents, refer to the Summary of Product Characteri stics of the co-administered protease inhibitor.   Based on interaction studies with the ritonavir boosted protease inhibitors (lopinavir/ritonavir, atazanavir), concurrent administration of omeprazole or ranitidine does not significantly modify ritonavir e fficacy as a pharmacokinetic enhancer despite a slight change of exposure (about 6 -18%).
