4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Lithium  
 Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Rare cases have also been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide). Co-administration of lithium and Actelsar HCT is not recommended  (see section 4. 4). If this combination proves essential, careful monitoring of serum lithium level is recommended during concomitant use.  
 Medicinal products associated with potassium loss and hypokalaemia (e.g. other kaliuretic diuretics, laxatives, corticosteroids, ACT H, amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G sodium, salicylic acid and derivatives)  
 If these substances are to be prescribed with the hydrochlorothiazide-telmisartan combination, monitoring of potassium plasma levels is advised. These medicinal products may potentiate the effect of hydrochlorothiazide on serum potassium (see section 4.4).  
 Medicinal products that may increase potassium levels or induce hyperkalaemia  (e.g. ACE inhibitors, potassium -sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium, cyclosporin or other medicinal products such as heparin sodium).  
 If these medicinal products are to be prescribed with the hydrochlorothiazide-telmisartan combination, monitoring of potassium plasma levels is advised. Based on the e xperience with the use of other medicinal products that blunt the renin-angiotensin system, concomitant use of the above medicinal products may lead to increases in serum potassium and is, therefore, not recommended (see section 
4.4). 
 Medicinal products a ffected by serum potassium disturbances 
 Periodic monitoring of serum potassium and ECG is recommended when Actelsar HCT is administered with medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances (e.g. digitalis glycosides, antiarrhythmics) and the f ollowing torsades de pointes inducing medicinal products (which include some antiarrhythmics), hypokalaemia being a predisposing factor to torsades de pointes.  
- class Ia antiarrythmics (e.g. quinidine, hydroquinidine, disopyramide)  
- class III antiarrythm ics (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide)  
- some antipsychotics (e.g. thioridazine, chlorpromazine, levomepromazine, trifluoperazine, cyamemazine, sulpiride, sultopride, amisulpride, tiapride, pimozide, haloperidol, droperidol)  
- others (e.g. b epridil, cisapride, diphemanil, erythromycin IV, halofantrin, mizolastin, pentamidine, sparfloxacine, terfenadine, vincamine IV)  
 Digitalis glycosides  
 Thiazide -induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnesaemia favours the onset of digitalis -induced arrhythmia (see section 4.4). 
 Digoxin  
 When telmisartan was co -administered with digoxin, median increases in digoxin peak plasma concentration (49%) and in trough concentration (20%) were observed. When initiating, adjusting, and 8 discontinuing telmisartan, monitor digoxin levels in order to maintain levels within the therapeutic range.  
 Other antihypertensive agents 
 Telmisartan may increase the hypotensive effect of other antihypertensive agents.  
 Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin -angiot ensin -aldosterone -system (RAAS) through the combined use of ACE -inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS -acting agent (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).  
 Antidiabetic medicinal products (oral agents and insulin)  
 Dose adjustment of the antidiabetic medicinal products may be required (see section 4.4).  
 Metf ormin  
 Metformin should be used with precaution: risk of lactic acidosis induced by a possible functional renal failure linked to hydrochlorothiazide.  
 Cholestyramine and colestipol resins 
 Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins.  
 Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory medicinal products  (NSAIDs)  
 NSAIDs (i.e. acetylsalicylic acid at anti -inflammatory dose regimens, COX-2 inhibitors and non-selective NSAIDs) may reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensiv e effects of thiazide diuretics and the antihypertensive effects of angiotensin II receptor antagonists.  In some patients with compromised renal function (e.g. dehydrated patients or elderly patients with compromised renal function) the co -administration o f angiotensin II receptor antagonists and agents that inhibit cyclo -oxygenase may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, which is usually reversible. Therefore the combination should be administered with caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and consideration should be given to monitoring of renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy and periodically thereafter.  
 In one study the co-administration of telmisartan and ramipril led to an increase of up to 2.5 fold in the AUC 0-24 and C max of ramipril and ramiprilat. The clinical relevance of this observation is not known.  
 Pressor amines (e.g. noradrenaline)  
 The effect of pressor amines may be decreased.  
 Nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine)  
 The effect of nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants may be potentiated by hydrochlorothiazide.  
 Medicinal products used in the treatment for gout (e.g. probenecid, sulfinpyrazone and allopurinol)  
 Dose adjustment of uricosuric medicinal products may be necessary as hydrochlorothiazide may raise the level of serum uric acid. Increase in dose of probenecid or sulfinpyrazone may be necessary. Co-administration of thiazide may increase the inci dence of hypersensitivity reactions of allopurinol.  
 9 Calcium salts  
 Thiazide diuretics may increase serum calcium levels due to the decreased excretion. If calcium supplements or calcium sparing medicinal products (e.g. vitamin D therapy) must be prescribe d, serum calcium levels should be monitored and calcium dose adjusted accordingly.  
 Beta-blockers and diazoxide  
 The hyperglycaemic effect of beta-blockers and diazoxide may be enhanced by thiazides.  
 Anticholinergic agents (e.g. atropine, biperiden) may increase the bioavailability of thiazide-type diuretics by decreasing gastrointestinal motility and stomach emptying rate.  
 Amantadine  
 Thiazides may increase the risk of adverse events caused by amantadine.  
 Cytotoxic agents (e.g. cyclophosphamide, methotrexate)  
 Thiazides may reduce the renal excretion of cytotoxic medicinal products and potentiate their myelosuppressive effects.  
 Based on their pharmacological properties it can be expected that the following medicinal  products may potentiate the hypotensive effects of all antihypertensives including telmisartan: Baclofen, amifostine.  Furthermore, orthostatic hypotension may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics or antidepressants.  
 
