4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Specific clinical medicinal product interaction studies have not been conducted with ziconotide. However, low plasma ziconotide concentrations, metabolism by ubiquitous peptidases and relatively low plasma protein binding (see section 5.2) make metabolic -based interactions or plasma protein displacement type interactions between ziconotide and other medicinal products unlikely.  
 No clinical data are available on the interaction between IT chemotherapy and IT ziconotide. Ziconotide is contraindicated in combination with IT chemotherapy (see section 4.3).  
 Only a small number of patients have received systemic chemotherapy and IT ziconotide. Caution should be exercised when ziconotide is administered to patients who are receiv ing systemic chemotherapy (see section 4.4).  
 Medicinal products that affect specific peptidases/proteases would not be expected to impact upon ziconotide plasma exposure. Based on very limited clinical investigations, both angiotensin converting  
6 enzyme in hibitors (e.g., benazepril, lisinopril and moexipril) and HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, saquinavir, indinavir), have no readily apparent effect on plasma ziconotide exposure.  
 Ziconotide does not interact with opiate receptors. If discontinuing  opiates when initiating ziconotide therapy, opiate withdrawal should be gradual. For patients being withdrawn from IT opiates, the IT opiate infusion dose should be gradually tapered over a few weeks and replaced with a pharmacologically equivalent dose o f oral opiates. Adding IT ziconotide to stable doses of IT morphine (see section 5.1), is possible but requires special attention, as a high rate of neuropsychiatric adverse reactions (confusion/thinking abnormal, paranoid reactions and hallucinations, and abnormal gait), some of them serious, was observed in Study 202 despite a low dose of ziconotide. Vomiting and anorexia, and peripheral oedema were also observed when IT ziconotide was added to IT morphine. The addition of IT morphine to stable doses of I T ziconotide is better tolerated (pruritus has been reported) (see section 5.1).  
 An increased incidence of somnolence has been observed when ziconotide is administered concomitantly with systemic baclofen, clonidine, bupivacaine or propofol thus for the t ime being their simultaneous use is discouraged.  
 No data are available regarding the concomitant use of partial opioid agonists (e.g. buprenorphine) with ziconotide.  
 
