4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Ciclosporin  
 A decrease in ciclosporin plasma levels has been observed in a drug -drug interaction study and  also reported in several cases, when orlistat was administered concomitantly. This could potentially lead to a decrease of immunosuppressive efficacy. Concurrent use of alli and ciclosporin is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 Oral anticoagulants  
 When warfarin or other oral anticoagulants are given in combination with orlistat, international normalised ratio (INR) values could be affected (see section  4.8). Concurrent use of alli and warfarin or other oral anticoagulants is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 5 Oral contraceptives  
 The absence of an interaction between oral contraceptives and orlistat has been demonstrated in specific drug -drug interaction studies. However, orlistat may indirectly reduce the availability of oral contraceptives and lead to unexpected pregnancies in some individual cases. An additional contraceptive method is recommended in case of severe diarrhoea (see section  4.4). 
 Levothyroxine  
 Hypothyroidism and/or reduced control of hypothyroidism may occur w hen orlistat and levothyroxine are taken at the same time (see section  4.4). This could be due to a decreased absorption of iodine salts and/or levothyroxine.  
 Antiepileptic medicinal products  
 Convulsions have been reported in patients treated concomitant ly with orlistat and antiepileptic medicinal products e.g. valproate, lamotrigine, for which a causal relationship to an interaction cannot be excluded. Orlistat may decrease the absorption of antiepileptic medicinal products, leading to convulsions.  
 Antiretroviral medicinal products  
 Based on reports from literature and post -marketing experience orlistat may potentially reduce the absorption of antiretroviral medicin al products  for HIV and could negatively affect the efficacy of antiretroviral medic inal product  for HIV (see section  4.4). 
 Fat-soluble vitamins  
 Treatment with orlistat may potentially impair the absorption of fat -soluble vitamins (A, D, E and K).  
 The vast majority of subjects receiving up to  4 full years of treatment with orlistat in cl inical studies had vitamin A, D, E and K and beta -carotene levels that stayed within normal range. However, patients should be advised to use a multivitamin supplement at bedtime to help ensure adequate vitamin intake (see section  4.4). 
 Acarbose  
 In the a bsence of pharmacokinetic interaction studies, alli is not recommended to be used by patients receiving acarbose.  
 Amiodarone  
 A decrease in plasma levels of amiodarone, when given as a single dose, has been observed in a limited number of healthy volunteers who received orlistat concomitantly. The clinical relevance of this effect in patients receiving amiodarone treatment remain s unknown. Patients who are taking amiodarone should consult a doctor before starting treatment with alli. The dose of amiodarone may need to be adjusted during treatment with alli.  
 Antidepressants, antipsychotics (including lithium) and benzodiazepines  
 There are some case reports of reduced efficacy of antidepressants, antipsychotics (including lithium) and benzodiazepines coincidental to the initiation of orlistat treatment in previously well controlled patients. Therefore orlistat treatment should only  be initiated after careful consideration of the possible impact in these patients.  
 6 