4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Concomitant use of medicinal pr oducts containing sodium oxybate and fentanyl is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 Coadministration of fentanyl with a serotoninergic agent, such as a Selective Serotonin Re -uptake Inhibitor (SSRI) or a Serotonin Norepinephrine Re -uptake Inhibitor (SNRI)  or a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI), may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life -threatening condition.  
 Instanyl  is not recommended for use in patients who have received Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) within 14  days because severe and unpredictable potentiation by MAOIs inhibitors has been reported with opioid analgesics.  
 Fentanyl is metabolised mainly via th e human cytochrome P450 3A4  isoenzyme system (CYP3A4), therefore potential interactions may occur when Instanyl is given concurrently with medicinal products that affect CYP3A4 activity. Coadministration with medicinal products that induce 3A4 activity may reduce the efficacy of Instanyl. The concomitant use of Instanyl with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, troleandomycin, clarithromycin, and nelfinavir) or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., amprenavir, aprepitant, diltia zem, erythromycin, fluconazole, fosamprenavir, and verapamil) may result in increased fentanyl plasma concentrations, potentially causing serious adverse drug reactions including fatal respiratory depression.  Patients receiving Instanyl concomitantly with moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors should be carefully monitored for an extended period of time. Dose increase should be done with caution.  
 In a pharmacokinetic interaction study it was found that the maximum plasma concentration of nasally applied fent anyl was reduced about 50% by the concomitant use of oxymetazoline, while the time to reach Cmax (T max) was doubled. This may reduce the efficacy of Instanyl. It is recommended that concomitant use of nasal decongestants is avoided (see section  5.2). 
 The concomitant use of  Instanyl with other central nervous system depressants (including opioids, sedatives,  hypnotics, general anaesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquillisers, sedating antihistamines and alcohol) , skeletal muscle relaxants  and gabapentinoids (ga bapentin and pregabalin)  may produce additive depressant effects: hypoventilation, hypotension, profound sedation, respiratory depression,  coma or death may occur. Therefore, the use of any of these medicinal products concomitantly with Instanyl requires special patient care and observation.  
 8 The concomitant use of opioids with sedative medicines such as benzodiazepines or related drugs incre ases the risk of sedation, respiratory depression, coma and death because of additive CNS depressant effect. The dose and duration of concomitant use should be limited (see section  4.4). 
 The concomitant use of partial opioid agonists/antagonists (e.g. bup renorphine, nalbuphine, pentazocine) is not recommended. They have high affinity to opioid receptors with relatively low intrinsic activity and therefore partially antagonise the analgesic effect of fentanyl and may induce withdrawal symptoms in opioid dependent patients . 
 Concomitant use of Instanyl with other medicinal products (other than oxymetazoline) administered via the nose has not been evaluated in the clinical trials. It is recommended that alternative administration forms should be considered for concomitant treatment of concurrent diseases that can be treated via nasal administration.  
 
