4.5  Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of other medicinal products on futibatinib  
 CYP3A/P -gp inhibitors  Co-administrations of multiple doses of 200 mg itraconazole, a strong CYP3A/P -gp inhibitor, increased futibatinib C max by 51% and AUC by 41% following a single oral dose of 20 mg futibatinib.  Therefore, the concomitant use of strong CYP3A/P -gp inhibitors ( e.g. clarithromycin, itraconazole) may increase futibatinib plasma concentration and should be avoided. If this is not possible, a reduction in the futibatinib dose to the next lower dose level based on tolerability observed should be considered (see sections 4.2 and 4.4) .   
 CYP3A/P -gp inducers  Co-administrations of multiple doses of 600 mg  rifampin, a strong CYP3A/P -gp inducer, decreased futibatinib C max by 53% and AUC by 64% following a single oral dose of 20 mg futibatinib. Therefore, the con comitant use of strong and moderate CYP3A/P -gp inducers (e.g. carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital,  efavirenz, rifampin) may decrease futibatinib plasma concentration and should be avoided. If this is not possible, gradually increasing the futi batinib dose based on careful monitoring of tolerability should be considered (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
 Proton pump inhibitors  Futibatinib geometric mean ratios for C max and AUC were 108 % and 105 %, respectively, when  co-administered in healthy subjects with lansoprazole (a proton pump inhibitor) relative to futibatinib alone. Co -administrations of a proton pump inhibitor  (lansoprazole) did not result in a clinically important change in futibatinib exposure.  
 Effects o f futibatinib on other medicinal products  
 Effect of futibatinib on CYP3A substrate  Midazolam (a CYP3A sensitive substrate)  geometric mean ratios for Cmax and AUC were 95 % and 
91 %, respectively, when co -administered in healthy subjects with futibatinib  relative to midazolam alone. Co -administrations of futibatinib had no clinically significant impact on midazolam exposure.  
 Effect of futibatinib on P -gp and BCRP substrates  In vitro , futibatinib is an inhibitor of P -gp and BCRP. Co -administration of futi batinib with P -gp (e.g., digoxin, dabigatran, colchicine) or BCRP (e.g, rosuvastatin) substrates may increase their exposure.  
 Effect of futibatinib on CYP1A2 substrates  In vitro  studies indicate that futibatinib has the potential to induce CYP1A2. Co -administration of futibatinib with CYP1A2 sensitive substrates (e.g, olanzapine, theophylline) may decrease their exposure and therefore may affect their activity.    
7 Hormonal contraceptives  It is currently unknown whether futibatinib may reduce the effectiveness of systemically acting hormonal contraceptives. Therefore, women using systemically acting hormonal contraceptives should add a barrier method during Lytgobi t reatment and for at least 1 week after the last dose (see section 4.6).  
 
