4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effect of other medicinal products on Paxlovid  
 Nirmatrelvir and ritonavir are CYP3A substrates.  
 Coadministration of Paxlovid with medicinal products that induce CYP3A may decrease nirmatrelvir  and ritonavir plasma concentrations and reduce Paxlovid therapeutic effect.  
 Coadministration of Paxlovid with medicinal product that inhibits CYP3A4 may incre ase nirmatrelvir  and ritonavir plasma concentrations.  
 Effects of Paxlovid on other medicinal products  
 Medicinal products CYP3A4 substrates  Paxlovid  (nirmatrelvir /ritonavir ) is a strong  inhibitor of CYP3A and increase s plasma concentrations of medicinal products  that are primarily metaboli sed by CYP3A. Thus, coadministration of nirmatrelvir /ritonavir with medicinal products highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associat ed with serious and/or life-threatening  events is contraindicated (see Table 1 ). Coadministration of other CYP3A4 substrates that may lead to potentially significant interaction (see Table 1) should be considered only if the benefits outweigh the risks.  
 Medicinal products CYP2D6  substrates  Based on in vitro  studies,  ritonavir has a high affinity for several cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms and may inhibit oxidation with the following ranked order: CYP3 A4 >  CYP2D6. Coadministration of Paxlovid with drug subst rates of CYP2D6 may increase the CYP2D6 substrate  concentration.   
 Medicinal products P -glycoprotein substrates  Paxlovid  also has a high affinity for P -glycoprotein (P-gp) and inhibit s this transporter ; caution should thus be exercised in case of concomitant treatment. Close drug monitoring for safety and efficacy should be performed, and dose reduction may be adjusted accordingly, or avoid concomitant use .  
 Paxlovid  may induce glucuronidation and oxidation by CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 thereby increasing the biotransformation of some medicinal products metabolised by these pathways and  may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal prod ucts, which could decrease or shorten their therapeutic effect.  
 Based on in vitro  studies t here is a potential for nirmatrelvir  to inhibit MDR1 and OATP1B1 at clinically relevant concentrations . 
 7 Dedicated drug -drug interactions studies conducted with Paxlovid indicate that the drug interactions are primarily due to ritonavir. Hence, drug interactions pertaining to ritonavir are  applicable for Paxlovid.  
 Medicinal products  listed in Table  1 are a g uide and not considered a comprehensive list of all possible medicinal products that are contraindicated or may interact with nirmatrelvir /ritonavir.  
 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  Alpha 1-adrenoreceptor antagonist  ↑Alfuzosin  Increased plasma concentrations of alfuzosin may lead to severe hypotension and is therefore contraindicated ( see section 4.3) . 
↑Tamsulosin  Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized, mainly by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6, both of which are inhibited by ritonavir. Avoid concomitant use with Paxlovid.  Amphetamine derivatives  ↑Amphetamine  
 Ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent is likely to inhibit CYP2D6 and as a result is expected to increase concentrations of amphetamine and its derivatives. Careful monitoring of adverse effects is recommended when these medicines are coadministered w ith Paxlovid . Analgesics  
 ↑Buprenorphine (57%, 77%)  The increases of plasma levels of buprenorphine and its active metabolite did not lead to clinically significant pharmacodynamic changes in a population of opioid tolerant patients. Adjustment to the dose of buprenorphine may therefore not be necessary whe n the two are dosed together.  
↑Fentanyl,  
↑Oxycodone  Ritonavir  inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of these narcotic analgesics . If concomitant use with Paxlovid is necessary , consider a dosage reduction of these narcotic analgesics and closely monitor therapeutic and adverse effects (including respiratory depression) . Refer to the individual Sm 
 PC s for more information.  
↓Methadone (36%, 38%)  
 Increased methadone dose may be necessary when coadministered with ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer due to induction of glucuronidation. Dose adjustment should be considered based on the patient’s clinical response to methadone therapy.  
↓Morphine  
 Morphine levels may be de creased due to induction of glucuronidation by coadministered ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  
↑Pethidine  Coadministration could result in increased or prolonged opioid effects. If concomitant 8 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of pethidine. Monitor for respiratory depression and sedation.  
↓Piroxicam  Decreased piroxicam exposure due to CYP2C9 induction by Paxlovid.  Antianginal  ↑Ranolazine  Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of ranolazine are expected to increase. The concomitant administration with ranolazine is contraindicated (see section 4.3). Antiarrhythmics  ↑Amiodarone  
↑Flecainide  Given the risk of substantial increase in amiodarone  or flecainide  exposure and thus of its related adverse events, coadministration should not be used unless a multidisciplinary consultation could be obtained to safely guide  it.  
↑Digoxin  This interaction may be due to modification of P -gp mediated digoxin efflux by ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  Digoxin drug concentration is expected to increase. Monitor digoxin levels if possible and digoxin safety and efficacy.  
↑Disopyramide  Ritonavir may increase pl asma concentrations of disopyramide which could result in an increased risk of adverse events such as cardiac arrhythmias.  Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for disopyramide if available.  
↑Dronedarone,  
↑Propafenone,  
↑Quinidine  
 Ritonavir coadministration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of dronedarone, propafenone and quinidine and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Antiasthmatic  ↓Theophylline (43%, 32%)  
 
 An increased dose of theophylline may be required when coadministered with ritonavir, due to induction of CYP1A2.  Anticancer agents  ↑Abemaciclib  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A4 inhibition by ritonavir. Coadministration of abema ciclib and Paxlovid should be avoided. If this coadministration is judged unavoidable, refer to the abemaciclib Sm 
 PC for dosage adjustment recommendations. Monitor for ADRs related to abemaciclib.  
↑Afatinib  
 Serum concentrations may be increased due to Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) and acute P -gp inhibition by ritonavir. The extent of increase in AUC and C max depends on the timing of ritonavir administration. Caution should be exercised in administering afatinib with 9 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  Paxlovid (refer to the afat inib Sm 
 PC). Monitor for ADRs related to afatinib.  
↑Apalutamide  
 Apalutamide is a moderate to strong CYP3A4 inducer and this may lead to a decreased exposure of nirmatrelvir/ritonavir and potential loss of virologic response. In addition, serum concentrations of apalutamide may be increased when coadministered with ritonavir resulting in the potential for serious adverse events including seizure. Concomitant use of Paxlovid with apalutamide is contraindicated (see section 
4.3). 
↑Ceritinib  
 Serum concentrations of ceritinib may be increased due to CYP3A and P -gp inhibit ion by ritonavir. Caution should be exercised in administering ceritinib with Paxlovid. Refer to the ceritinib Sm 
 PC for dosage adjustment recommendations. Monitor for ADRs related to ceritinib.  
↑Dasatinib,  
↑Nilotinib,  
↑Vinblastine,  
↑Vincristine  Serum concentrations may be increased when coadministered with ritonavir resulting in the potential for increased incidence of adverse events.  
↑Encorafenib,  
↑Ivosidenib  
 Serum concentrations of encorafenib or ivosidenib may be increased when coadministered with ritonavir which may increase the risk of toxicity, including the risk of serious adverse events such as QT interval prolongation. Avoid coadministration of encorafenib or ivosidenib. If the benefit is considered to outweigh the risk and  ritonavir must be used, patients should be carefully monitored for safety.  
↑Fostamatinib  
 Coadministration of fostamatinib with ritonavir may increase fostamatinib metabolite R406 exposure resulting in dose-related adverse events such as hepatotoxicity,  neutropenia, hypertension or diarrhoea. Refer to the fostamatinib Sm 
 PC for dose reduction recommendations if such events occur . 
↑Ibrutinib  
 Serum concentrations of ibrutinib may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, resulting in increased risk for toxicity including risk of tumour lysis syndrome. Coadministration of ibrutinib and ritonavir should be avoided. If the benefit is cons idered to outweigh the risk and ritonavir must be used, reduce the 10 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  ibrutinib dose to 140  mg and monitor patient closely for toxicity.  
↑Neratinib  
 Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A4 inhibition by ritonavir.  Concomitant use of neratinib with Paxlovid is contraindicated due to serious and/or life -threatening potential reactions including hepatotoxicity (see section 4.3).  
↑Venetoclax  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, resulting in increas ed risk of tumour lysis syndrome at the dose initiation and during the ramp -up phase  and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3 and refer to the venetoclax Sm 
 PC). For patients who have completed the ramp -up phase and are on a steady daily dose of ve netoclax, reduce the venetoclax dose by at least 75% when used with strong CYP3A inhibitors (refer to the venetoclax Sm 
 PC for dosing instructions).  Anticoagulants  ↑Apixaban  Combined P -gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increase blood levels of apixaban and increase the risk of bleeding. Dosing recommendations for coadministration of apixaban with Paxlovid depend on the apixaban dose. Refer to the apixaban Sm 
 PC  for more information.  
↑Dabigatran (94%, 133%)*  Concomitant administration of Paxlovid is expected to increase dabigatran concentrations resulting in increased risk of bleeding. Reduce dose of dabigatran or avoid concomitant use. Refer to the dabigatran Sm 
 PC  for further information.  
↑Rivaroxaban (153%, 53%)  
 Inhibition of CYP3A and P -gp lead to increased plasma levels and pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban which may lead to an increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of Paxlovid is not recommended in  patients receiving rivaroxaban.  Warfarin,  
↑↓S-Warfarin (9%, 9%),  
↓↔R-Warfarin (33%)  Induction of CYP1A2 and CYP2C9 lead to decreased levels of R -warfarin while little pharmacokinetic effect is noted on S-warfarin when coadministered with ritonavir. Decr eased R -warfarin levels may lead to reduced anticoagulation, therefore it is recommended that anticoagulation parameters are monitored when warfarin is coadministered with ritonavir . Anticonvulsants  
 Carbamazepine*,   Phenobarbital,  Phenytoin,  Carbamazepine decreases AUC and C max of nirmatrelvir by 55% and 43%, respectively.  Phenobarbital, phenytoin and 11 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  Primidone  primidone  are strong CYP3A4 inducers, and this may lead to a decreased exposure of nirmatrelvir and ritonavir and potential loss of vi rologic response. Concomitant use of carbamazepine,  phenobarbital, phenytoin  and primidone with Paxlovid is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
↑Clonazepam  A dose decrease may be needed for clonazepam when coadministered with Paxlovid and clinical monitor ing is recommended.  
↓Divalproex,  Lamotrigine  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer induces oxidation by CYP2C9 and glucuronidation and as a result is expected to decrease the plasma concentrations of anticonvulsants. Careful monitoring of serum levels or therapeutic effects is recommended when these medicines are coadministered with ritonavir.  Anticorticosteroids  ↑Ketoconazole (3.4 -fold, 55%)  Ritonavir inhibits CYP3A -mediated metabolism of ketoconazole. Due to an increased incidence of gas trointestinal and hepatic adverse reactions, a dose reduction of ketoconazole should be considered when coadministered with ritonavir.  Antidepressants  ↑Amitriptyline,  Fluoxetine,  Imipramine,  Nortriptyline,  Paroxetine,  Sertraline  Ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent is likely to inhibit CYP2D6 and as a result is expected to increase concentrations of imipramine, amitriptyline, nortriptyline, fluoxetine, paroxetine or sertraline. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommend ed when these medicines are concomitantly administered with antiretroviral doses of ritonavir.  Anti-gout ↑Colchicine  Concentrations of colchicine are expected to increase when coadministered with ritonavir. Life -threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine and ritonavir (CYP3A4 and P -gp inhibition).  Concomitant use of colchicine with Paxlovid is contraindicated (see section  4.3). Anti-HCV  ↑Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir  Serum concentrations may b e increased due to P -gp, BCRP and OATP1B inhibition by ritonavir. Concomitant administration of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir and Paxlovid is not recommended due to an increased risk of ALT elevations associated with increased glecaprevir exposure.  12 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  
↑Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/  voxilaprevir  
 Serum concentrations may be increased due to OATP1B inhibition by ritonavir. Concomitant administration of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir  and Paxlovid is not recommended. Refer to the  sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilap revir  Sm 
 PC  for further information.  Antihistamines  ↑Fexofenadine  Ritonavir may modify P -gp mediated fexofenadine efflux when dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer resulting in increased concentrations of fexofenadine.  
↑Loratadine   
 Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer inhibits CYP3A and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of loratadine. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when loratadine is coadministered with ritonavir.  
↑Terfenadine  Increased plasma concentrations of terfenadine. Thereby, increasing the risk of serious arrhythmias from this agent and therefore concomitant use with Paxlovid is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Anti-HIV ↑Bictegravir/  
↔Emtricitabine/  
↑Tenofovir  Ritonavi r may significantly increase the plasma concentrations of bictegravir through CYP3A inhibition. Ritonavir is expected to increase the absorption of tenofovir alafenamide by inhibition of P-gp, thereby increasing the systemic concentration of tenofovir.  
↑Efavirenz (21%)  A higher frequency of adverse reactions (e.g., dizziness, nausea, paraesthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes) have been observed when efavirenz is coadministered with ritonavir.  
↑Maraviroc (161%, 28%)  
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of maraviroc as a result of CYP3A inhibition. Maraviroc may be given with ritonavir to increase the maraviroc exposure. For further information, refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for maraviroc . 
↓Raltegravir (16%, 1%)  
 Coadministration of ritonavir and raltegravir results in a minor reduction in raltegravir levels.  
↓Zidovudine (25%, ND)  Ritonavir may induce the glucuronidation of zidovudine, resulting in slightly decreased levels of zidovudine. Dose alterations should not be necessary.  Anti-infectives  ↓Atovaquone  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer induces glucuronidation and as a result is expected to decrease the plasma concentrations of atovaquone. Careful monitoring of serum levels or therapeutic 13 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  effects is recommended when atovaquone is coadministered with ritonavir.  
↑Bedaquiline  No interaction study is available with ritonavir only. Due to the risk of bedaquiline related adverse events, coadministration should be avoided. If the benefit outweighs the risk, coadministration of bedaquiline with ritonavir must be done with caution. More frequent electrocardiogram monitoring and monitoring of transaminases is recommended (see bedaquiline Summ ary of Product Characteristics).  
↑Clarithromycin (77%, 31%),  
↓14-OH clarithromycin metabolite (100%, 99%)  Due to the large therapeutic window of clarithromycin no dose reduction should be necessary in patients with normal renal function. Clarithromycin d oses greater than 
1 g per day should not be coadministered with ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. For patients with renal impairment, a clarithromycin dose reduction should be considered: for patients with creatinine clearance of 30 to 
60 m 
 L/m in the dose should be reduced by 
50% (see section 4.2 for patients with severe renal impairment).  Delamanid  
 No interaction study is available with ritonavir only. In a healthy volunteer drug interaction study of delamanid 100  mg twice daily and lopinavi r/ritonavir 
400/100  mg twice daily for 14  days, the exposure of the delamanid metabolite DM-6705 was 30% increased. Due to the risk of QTc prolongation associated with DM-6705, if coadministration of delamanid with ritonavir is considered necessary, very f requent ECG monitoring throughout the full Paxlovid treatment period is recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to the delamanid Summary of Product Characteristics).  
↑Erythromycin,  
↑Itraconazole * 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Itraconazole increases AUC and C max of nirmatrelvir by 39% and 19%, respectively. Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of itraconazole and erythromycin. Careful moni toring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when erythromycin or itraconazole is coadministered with ritonavir.  
 14 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  
↑Fusidic acid  (systemic route ) Given the risk of substantial increase in fusidic acid (systemic route) exposure and thus of its related adverse events, coadminis tration should not be used unless a multidisciplinary consultation could  be obtained to safely guide it . 
↑Rifabutin (4 -fold, 2.5 -fold),  
↑25-O-desacetyl rifabutin metabolite (38 -fold, 16 -fold) Due to the large increase in rifabutin AUC, reduction of the rifabutin dose to 150  mg 
3 times per week may be indicated when coadministered with ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  Rifampicin,  Rifapentine  Rifampicin and rifapentine are strong CYP3A4 inducers, and this may lead to a decreased exposure of nirmatrelvir/ritonavir, potential loss of virologic response and possible resistance. Concomitant use of rifampicin or rifapentine with Paxlovid is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim  
 Dose alteration of sulfamethoxazole/trime thoprim during concomitant ritonavir therapy should not be necessary.  
↓Voriconazole (39%, 24%)  Coadministration of voriconazole and ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer should be avoided unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole.  Antipsychotics  
 ↑Clozapine  Given the risk of substantial increase in clozapine  exposure and thus of its related adverse events, coadministration should not be used unless a multidisciplinary consultation could be obtained to safely guide it . 
↑Haloperidol,  
↑Risperidone,  
↑Thioridazine  
 Ritonavir is likely to inhibit CYP2D6 and as a result is expected to increase concentrations of haloperidol, risperidone and thioridazine. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when these medicines are concomitantly administered with antiretroviral doses of ritonavir.  
↑Lurasidone  
 Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of lurasidone are expected to increase. The concomitant administration wi th lurasidone is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
↑Pimozide  Ritonavir coadministration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of pimozide and is therefore contraindicated  (see section 4.3).  15 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  
↑Quetiapine  Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of quetiapine are expected to increase. Con comitant administration of Paxlovid and quetiapine is contraindicated as it may increase quetiapine -related toxicity (see section 4.3).  Benign prostatic hyperplasia agents  ↑Silodosin  Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for postural hypote nsion (see section 4.3).  
β2-agonist (long acting)  ↑Salmeterol  Ritonavir inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result a pronounced increase in the plasma concentrations of salmeterol is expected , resulting in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations and sinus tachycardia. Therefore, avoid concomitant use with Paxlovid.  Calcium channel antagonists  ↑Amlodipine,  
↑Diltiazem,  
↑Felodipine,  
↑Nicardipine,  
↑Nifedipine,  
↑Verapamil  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of calcium channel antagonists. Care ful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when amlodipine, diltiazem, felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine or verapamil are concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  
↑Lercanidipine  Coadministration of lercanidipine and Paxlovid sho uld be avoided.  Cardiovascular agents  ↑Aliskiren  Avoid concomitant use with Paxlovid.  
↑Cilostazol  Dosage adjustment of cilostazol is recommended. Refer to the cilostazol Sm 
 PC  for more information.  Clopidogrel  Coadministration with clopidogrel may decrease levels of clopidogrel active metabolite. Avoid concomitant use with Paxlovid.  
↑Eplerenone  Coadministration with eplerenone is contraindicated due to potential for hyperkalemia (see section 4.3).  
↑Ivabradine  Coadministration wit h ivabradine is contraindicated due to potential for bradycardia or conduction disturbances (see section 4.3).  
↑Ticagrelor  Given the risk of substantial increase in ticagrelor  exposure and thus of its related adverse events, coadministration should not b e used unless a multidisciplinary consultation could be obtained to safely guide it . 16 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator potentiators  ↑Elexacaftor/ tezacaftor/ivacaftor,  
↑Ivacaftor,  
↑Tezacaftor/ivacaftor  Reduce dosage when coadministered with Paxlovid. Refer to individual Sm 
 PCs  for more information.  Lumacaftor/ivacaftor  Coadministration contraindicated due to potential loss of virologic response and possible resistance (see section 4.3).  Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) inhibitors  ↑Saxagliptin  Dosage adjustment of saxagliptin is recommended. Refer to the saxagliptin Sm 
 PC  for more information.   Endothelin antagonists  ↑Bosentan  Coadministration of bosentan and ritonavir may increase steady -state bosentan maximum concentrations (C max) and AUC.  
↑Riociguat  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A and P -gp inhibition by ritonavir. The coadministration of riociguat with Paxlovid is not recommended (refer to riociguat Sm 
 PC).  Ergot derivatives  ↑Dihydroergotamine,  
↑Ergonovine,  
↑Ergotamine,  
↑Methylergonovine  Ritonavir coadministration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of ergot derivatives and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  GI motility agent  ↑Cisapride  Increased plasma concentrations of cisapride. Thereby, increasing the risk of serious arrhythmias from this agent and therefore concomitant use with Paxlovid is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Herbal products  St. John’s Wort  Herbal preparatio ns containing St John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) due to the risk of decreased plasma concentrations and reduced clinical effects of nirmatrelvir and ritonavir and therefore concomitant use with Paxlovid is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  HMG Co -A reductase inhibitors  ↑Atorvastatin,  Fluvastatin,  Lovastatin,  Pravastatin,  Rosuvastatin,  Simvastatin  HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors which are highly dependent on CYP3A metabolism, such as lovastatin and simvastatin, are expected to have markedly increased plasma concentrations when coadministered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharm acokinetic enhancer. Since increased concentrations of lovastatin and simvastatin may predispose patients to myopathies, including rhabdomyolysis, the combination of these medicinal products with ritonavir is contraindicated  (see section 4.3). Atorvastatin  is less dependent on CYP3A for metabolism. While rosuvastatin elimination is not dependent on CYP3A, an elevation of rosuvastatin exposure has 17 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  been reported with ritonavir coadministration. The mechanism of this interaction is not clear, but may be the result of transporter inhibition. When used with ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent, the lowest possible doses of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin should be administered. The metabolism of pravastatin and fluvastatin is not dependent on CYP3A, and interactions are not expected with ritonavir. If treatment with an HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitor is indicated, pravastatin or fluvastatin is recommended.  Hormonal contraceptive  ↓Ethinyl Estradiol ( 40%, 32%)  Due to reductions in et hinyl estradiol concentrations, barrier or other non-hormonal methods of contraception should be considered with concomitant ritonavir use when dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. Ritonavir is likely to change the uterine ble eding profile and reduce the effectiveness of estradiol -containing contraceptives.  Immunosuppressants  ↑Voclosporin  Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for acute and/or chronic nephrotoxicity (see section 4.3).  Immunosuppressants  Calcineurin inhibitors:  
↑Cyclosporine,  
↑Tacrolimus   
 m 
 TOR inhibitors:  
↑Everolimus,  
↑Sirolimus  
 Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of cyclosporine, everolimus, sirolimus and tacrolimus. This coadministration should only be considered with close and regular monitoring of immunosuppressant serum concentrations, to reduce the dose of the immunosuppressant in accordance with the latest guidelines and to avoid over-exposure and subsequent increase of serious adverse reactions of the immunosuppressant. It is importa nt that the close and regular monitoring is performed not only during the coadministration with Paxlovid but is also pursued after the treatment with Paxlovid. As overall recommended for managing the drug -drug interaction, consultation of a multidisciplina ry group is required to handle the complexity of this coadministration (see section 4.4) .  Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors  ↑Tofacitinib  
 Dosage adjustment of tofacitinib is recommended. Refer to the tofacitinib Sm 
 PC  for more information.  18 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  
↑Upadacitinib  
 Dosing recommendations for coadministration of upadacitinib with Paxlovid depends on the upadacitinib indication. Refer to the upadacitinib Sm 
 PC  for more information.  Lipid -modifying agents  ↑Lomitapide  CYP3A4 inhibitors increase the exposure of lomitapide, with strong inhibitors increasing exposure approximately 
27-fold. Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of lomitapide are expected to increase. Concomitant use of Paxlovid with lomitapide is contraindicated (see presc ribing information for lomitapide) (see section  4.3). Migraine medicinal products  ↑Eletriptan  
 Coadministration of eletriptan within at least 72 hours of Paxlovid is contraindicated due to potential for serious adverse reactions including cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events (see section 
4.3). 
↑Rimegepant  Avoid concomitant use with Paxlovid.  Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists  ↑Finerenone  Coadministration contraindicated due to potential for serious adverse reactions including hyperkalemia, hypotension and hyponatremia (see section 4.3).  Muscarinic receptor antagonists  ↑Darifenacin  Given the risk of substantial increase in darifenacin  exposure and thus of its related adverse events, coadministration should not be used unless a multidisciplinary consultation could be obtained to safely guide it.  
↑Solifenacine  Given the risk of substantial increase in solifenacine  exposure and thus of its related adverse events, coadministration should not be used unless a multidisciplinary consultation could be obtained to safely guide it.  Neuropsychiatric  agents  ↑Aripiprazole , 
↑Brexpiprazole,  
↑Cariprazine  Dosage adjustment of aripiprazole, brexpiprazole and cariprazine is recommended. Refer to individual Sm 
 PCs  for more information.  Opioid antagonists  ↑Naloxegol  Coadministration contraindicated due to the potential for opioid withdrawal symptoms (see section 4.3).  Phosphodiesterase (PDE5) inhibitors  ↑Avanafil (13 -fold, 2.4 -fold)  
↑Sildenafil (11 -fold, 4 -fold)  
↑Tadalafil (124%, ↔) 
↑Vardenafil (49 -fold, 13 -fold)  Concomitant use of avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil and vardenafil with Paxlovid is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Sedatives/hypnotics  ↑Alprazolam (2.5 -fold, ↔) Alprazolam metabolism is inhibited following the introduction of ritonavir. Caution is warranted during the first 19 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  several days when alprazolam is coadministered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer, before induct ion of alprazolam metabolism develops.  
↑Buspirone  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of buspirone. Careful monitoring of therapeutic  and adverse effects is recommended when buspirone concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  
↑Clorazepate,  
↑Diazepam,  
↑Estazolam,  
↑Flurazepam  Ritonavir coadministration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of clorazepate, diazepam, est azolam, and flurazepam  and is therefore contraindicated  (see section 4.3).  
↑Oral Midazolam (1330%, 
268%)*  and parenteral Midazolam  Midazolam is extensively metabolised by CYP3A4. Coadministration with Paxlovid may cause a large increase in the concentration of midazolam. Plasma concentrations of midazolam are expected to be significantly higher when midazolam is given orally. Therefore, coadministration of Paxlovid with orally administered midazolam is contraindicated (see section 
4.3), whereas caution should be used with coadministration of Paxlovid and parenteral midazolam. Data from concomitant use of parenteral midazolam with other protease inhibitors suggests a possible 3 - to 4-fold increase in midazolam plasma levels. If Paxlovid is coadmin istered with parenteral midazolam, it should be done in an intensive care unit (ICU) or similar setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage adjustmen t for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered.  
↑Triazolam (>  20-fold, 87%)  Ritonavir coadministration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of triazolam and is therefore contrain dicated (see section 4.3).  Sleeping agent  ↑Zolpidem (28%, 22%)  
 Zolpidem and ritonavir may be coadministered with careful monitoring for excessive sedative effects.  Smoke cessation  ↓Bupropion (22%, 21%)  Bupropion is primarily metabolised by CYP2B6. Concurrent administration of bupropion with repeated doses of ritonavir 20 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  is expected to decrease bupropion levels. These effects are thought to represent induction of bupropion metabolism. However, because riton avir has also been shown to inhibit CYP2B6 in vitro , the recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded. In contrast to long -term administration of ritonavir, there was no significant interaction with bupropion after short -term administration of low doses of ritonavir (200  mg twice daily for 2  days), suggesting reductions in bupropion concentrations may have onset several days after initiation of ritonavir coadministration.  Steroids  Budesonide,  Inhaled, injectable or intranasal fluticasone propionat e,  Triamcinolone  Systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression (plasma cortisol levels were noted to be decreased 86%) have been reported in patients receiving ritonavir and inhaled or intranasal fluticasone propiona te; similar effects could also occur with other corticosteroids metabolised by CYP3A e.g., budesonide and triamcinolone. Consequently, concomitant administration of ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer and these gluco corticoids is not recommended unless the potential benefit of treatment outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. A dose reduction of the glucocorticoid should be considered with close monitoring of local and systemic effects or a switch to a glucocorticoid, which is not a substrate for CYP3A4 (e.g., beclomethasone). Moreover, in case of withdrawal of glucocorticoids progressive dose reduction may be required over a longer period.  
↑Dexamethasone  
 Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of dexamethasone. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when dexamethasone is concomitantly administered with rito navir.  
↑Prednisolone (28%, 9%)  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when prednisolone is concomitantly administered with ritonavir. The AUC of the metabolite prednisolone increased by 21 Table 1: Interaction  with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  Medicinal product class  Medicinal product within class  (AUC change, C max Change)  Clinical comments  
37% and 28% after 4 and 14  days ritonavir, respectively.  Thyroid hormo ne replacement therapy  Levothyroxine  Post-marketing cases have been reported indicating a potential interaction between ritonavir containing products and levothyroxine. Thyroid -stimulating hormone (TSH) should be monitored in patients treated with levothyr oxine at least the first month after starting and/or ending ritonavir treatment.  Vasopressin receptor antagonists  ↑Tolvaptan  Coadministration is contraindicated due to potential for dehydration, hypovolemia and hyperkalemia (see section 4.3).  Abbreviations: ATL=alanine aminotransferase; AUC=area under the curve.  
* Results from DDI studies conducted with Paxlovid.  
 
