4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Macimorelin is metabolised mainly by CYP3A4  in vitro . 
 Co-administration of a CYP3A4  inhibitor may increase the macimorelin plasma concentration , and this, in turn , could yield higher  plasma GH levels . Based on current understanding, this is unlikely to decrease the specificity of the test.  
 Administration of a CYP3A 4 inducer (such as  carbamazepine, dabrafenib, efavirenz, enzalutamide, eslicarbazepine , fosphenytoin , lumacaftor,  modafinil, nevirapine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin , pioglitazone, pitolisant, primidone, rifabutin , rifampicin  and St John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum )) may reduce the plasma macimorelin concentrations and may affect the diagnostic performance of the test and therefore should be avoided. A sufficient washout time of five elimination half-lives of the CYP3A 4 inducer prior to administration of the test is recommended  (see section  4.2 and section  4.4).  
 No drug -drug interaction studies have been performed in humans.  
  
6 Medicinal products  affecting growth hormone release  
 The following medicinal products  may impact the accuracy of the diagnostic test. Concomitant use  is to be avoided  with (see also section  4.2 and section  4.4): 
• Medicinal products that directly affect the pituitary secretion of growth hormone (such as somatostatin, insulin, glucocorticoids , and cyclooxygenase inhibitors such as acetylsalicylic acid or indometacin ). 
• Medicinal products that may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations (such as clonidine, levodopa , and insulin).  
• Medicinal products that may blunt the growth hormone response to macimorelin (such as muscarinic antagonists: atropine, anti -thyroid medicinal products : propylthiouracil and growth hormone medicinal products).  Growth hormone medicinal products should be discontinued at least 1 month  before administering macimorelin . Sufficient washout time (five elimination half-lives) of medicinal products prior to administration of macimorelin is recommended.  
 Medicinal  products  with a potential to induce torsades de pointes  
 Co-administration of macimorelin with medicinal products with a potential  to induce torsades de pointes (antipsychotic  medicinal products e.g.  chlorpromazine, haloperidol, antibiotics (e.g., moxifloxacin,  erythromycin, clarithromycin ), anti-arrhythmics Class  Ia (e.g. quinidine ), and Class  III (e.g. amiodarone, procainamide, sotalol ) or any other medicinal products that may induce torsades de pointes) should be avoided (see section  4.4). 
 
