4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Caution is advised when prescribing Xeplion with medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval, e.g. class IA antiarrhythmic s(e.g., quinidine, disopyramide) and class III antiarrhythmic s(e.g. amiodarone, sotalol), some antihistaminics, some other antipsychotics and some antimalarials (e.g. mefloquin e).This list is indicative and not exhaustive.Potential for Xeplion to affect other medicines 
 Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with medicinal products that are metabolised by cytochrome P -450 isozy mes.Given the primary central nervous system ( CNS )effects of paliperidone (see section 4.8), Xeplionshould be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting medicinal products , e.g., anxiolytics, most antipsychotics, hypnotics, opiates, e tc. or alcohol.Paliperidone may antagonise the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. If this combination is deemed necessary, particularly in end -stage Parkinson’s disease, the lowest effective dose of each treatment should be prescribed.Beca use of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension (see section 4.4), an additive effect may be observed when Xeplion is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential, e.g., other antipsychotics, tricyclics.Caution is advised if paliperidone is combined with other medicinal products known to lower the seizure threshold (i.e., phenothiazines or butyrophenones, tricyclics or SSRIs, tramadol, mefloquine, etc.).Co-administration of oral paliperidone prolonged release tablets at steady -state (12 mgonce daily) with divalproex sodium prolong edrelease tablets (500 mgto 2000mgonce daily) did not affect the steady -state pharmacokinetics of valproate.No interaction study between Xeplion and lithium has been performed, however, a pharmacokinetic interaction is not likely to occur.Potential for other medicines to affect Xeplion 
 In vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, but there are no indications in vitro nor in vivo that these isozymes play a significant role in the metabolism of paliperidone. Concomitant administration of oral paliperidone with paroxetine, a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor, showed no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone.Co-administration of oral paliperidone prolonged release once daily with carbamazepine 200 mgtwice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady -state C maxand AUC of paliperidone. 10This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone likely as a result of induction of renal P -gp by carbamazepine. A minor decrease in the amount of active substance excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bi oavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co -administration. Larger decreases in plasma concentrations of paliperidone could occur with higher doses of carbamazepine. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of Xeplion should be re -evaluated and i ncreased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of Xeplion should be re -evaluated and decreased if necessary.Co-admin istration of a single dose of an oral paliperidone prolong edrelease tablet 12 mgwith divalproex sodium prolong edrelease tablets (two 500 mgtablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the C max and AUC of paliperidone , likely as a result of increased oral absorption . Since no effect on the systemic clearance was observed , a clinical ly significant interaction would not be expected between divalproex sodium prolong edrelease tablets and Xeplionintramuscular injection. This interaction has not been studied with Xeplion .Concomitant use of Xeplion with risperidone or with oral paliperi done 
 Since paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone, caution should be exercised when Xeplion is co-administered with risperidone or with oral paliperidone for extended periods of time. Safety data involving concomitant use of Xeplion with other antipsychotics is limited.Concomitant use of Xeplion with psychostimulants 
 The combined use of psychostimulants (e.g. ,methylphenidate) with paliperidone can lead to extrapyramidal symptoms upon change of either or both treatments (see section 4.4).
