4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interaction studies were conducted with 10 mg and/or 20 mg tadalafil, as indicated below. With regard to those interac tion studies where only the 10 mg tadalafil dose was used, clinically relevant interactions at higher doses cannot be completely ruled out.  
 Effects of other substances on tadalafil  
 Cytochrome P450 inhibitors   Tadalafil is principally metabolised by CYP3A4. A selective inhibitor of CYP3A4, ketoconazole  (200 mg daily), increased tadalafil (10 mg) exposure (AUC) 2- fold and C max by 15  %, relative to the AUC and C max values for tadalafil alone. Ketoconazole (400 mg daily) increased tadalafil  (20 mg) exposure (AUC) 4- fold and C max by 22  %. Ritonavir, a protease inhibitor (200 mg twice daily), which is an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, increased tadalafil (20 mg)  6 exposure  (AUC) 2 -fold with no change  in C max. Although specific interactions have not been studied, other protease inhibitors, such as saquinavir, and other CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, itraconazole and grapefruit juice should be co- administered with caution as th ey would be expected to increase plasma concentrations of tadalafil (see section 4.4) . Consequently the incidence of the adverse reactions listed in section 4.8 might be increased.  
 Transporters  The role of transporters (for example p- glycoprotein) in the disposition of tadalafil is not known. There fore there is  the potential of drug interactions mediated by inhibition of transporters.  
 Cytochrome P450 inducers  A CYP3A4 inducer, rifampicin, reduced tadalafil AUC by 88  %, relative to the AUC values for tadalafil alone (10 mg). This reduced exposure can be anticipated to decrease the efficacy of tadalafil; the magnitude of decreased efficacy is unknown. O ther inducers of CYP3A4 such as phenobarbital, phenytoin and carbamazepine, may also decrease plasma concentrations of tadalafil.  
 Effects of tadalafil on other medicinal products  
 Nitrates  In clinical studies, tadalafil (5, 10 and 20 mg) was shown to augment the hypotensive effects of nitrates. Therefore, administration of CIALIS to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate is contraindicated (see section 4.3). Based on the results of a clinical study in which 150 subjects receiving daily doses of tadalafil 20  mg for 7 days and 0.4 mg sublingual nitroglycerin at various times , this interaction lasted for more than 24 hours and was no longer detectable when 48 hours had elapsed after the last tadalafil dose. Thus, in a patient prescribed any dose of CIALIS (2.5  mg-20 mg), where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life -threatening situation, at least 48 hours should have elapsed after the last dose of CIALIS before nitrate administration is considered. In such circumstances, nitrates should only be administered under close medical supervision with appropriat e haemodynamic monitoring.  
 Anti-hypertensives (including c alcium channel blockers)  The co -administration of doxazosin (4 and 8 mg daily) and tadalafil (5  mg daily dose and 20 mg as a single dose) increases the blood pressure- lowering effect of this alpha -blocker in a significant manner. This effect lasts at least twelve hours and may be symptomatic, including syncope. Therefore this combination is not recommended (see section 4.4).  In interaction studies performed in a limited number of healthy volunteers,  these effects were not reported with alfuzosin or tamsulosin. However, caution should be exercised when using tadalafil in patients treated with any alpha -blockers, and notably in the elderly. Treatments should be initiated at minimal dos age and progressi vely adjusted.  
 In clinical pharmacology studies, the potential for tadalafil to augment the hypotensive effects of antihypertensive medicinal products  was examined. Major classes of antihypertensive medicinal products  were studied, including calcium chann el blockers (amlodipine), angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (enalapril), beta -adrenergic receptor blockers (metoprolol), thiazide diuretics (bendrofluazide), and angiotensin II receptor blockers (various types and doses, alone or in combinatio n with thiazides, calcium channel blockers, beta- blockers, and/or alpha -blockers). Tadalafil (10 mg except for studies with angiotensin II receptor blockers and amlodipine in which a 20 mg dose was applied) had no clinically significant interaction with an y of these classes. In another clinical pharmacology study tadalafil (20 mg) was studied in combination with up to 4 classes of antihypertensives. In subjects taking multiple antihypertensives, the ambulatory- blood- pressure changes appeared to relate to th e degree of blood -pressure control. In this regard, study subjects whose blood pressure was well controlled, the reduction was minimal and similar to that seen in healthy subjects. In study subjects whose blood pressure was not controlled, the reduction wa s greater although this reduction was not associated with hypotensive symptoms in the majority of subjects. In patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive medicinal products , tadalafil 20 mg may induce a blood pressure decrease, which (with the excepti on of alpha blockers - see above -) is, in general, minor and not likely to be clinically relevant. Analysis of phase 3 clinical trial data showed no difference in  7 adverse events in patients taking tadalafil with or without antihypertensive medicinal product s. However, appropriate clinical advice should be given to patients regarding a possible decrease in blood pressure when they are treated with antihypertensive medicinal products . 
 Riociguat  Preclinical studies showed an additive systemic blood pressure lo wering effect when PDE5 inhibitors were combined with riociguat.  In clinical studies, riociguat has been shown to augment the hypotensive effects of PDE5 inhibitors.  There was no evidence of favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied.  Concomitant use of riociguat with PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil , is contraindicated (see section 4.3).   
 
5- alpha reductase inhibitors  In a clinical trial that compared tadalafil 5 mg coadministered with finasteride 5 mg to placebo plus finasteride 5 mg in the relief of BPH symptoms, no new adverse reactions were identified. However, as a formal drug- drug interaction study evaluating the effects of tadalafil and 5- alpha reductase inhibitors (5- ARIs) has not been performed, ca ution should be exercised when tadalafil  is co -administered with 5 -ARIs . 
 CYP1A2 substrates (e.g. theophylline)  When tadalafil 10  mg was administered with theophylline (a non- selective phosphodiesterase inhibitor) in a clinical pharmacology study, there wa s no pharmacokinetic interaction. The only pharmacodynamic effect was a small (3.5  bpm) increase in heart rate. Although this effect is minor and was of no clinical significance in this study, it should be considered when co- administering these medicin al products . 
 Ethinylestradiol and terbutaline  Tadalafil has been demonstrated to produce an increase in the oral bioavailability of ethinylestradiol; a similar increase may be expected with oral administration of terbutaline, although the clinical consequence  of this is uncertain.  
 Alcohol  Alcohol concentrations (mean maximum blood concentration 0.08  %) were not affected by co -administration with tadalafil (10 mg or 20  mg). In addition, no changes in tadalafil concentrations were seen 3 hours after co -administration with alcohol. Alcohol was administered in a manner to maximis e the rate of alcohol absorption (overnight fast with no food until 2 hours after alcohol).  Tadalafil (20  mg) did not augment the mean blood pressure decrease produced by alcohol (0.7 g/k g or approximately 180 ml of 40 % alcohol [vodka] in an 80 -kg male) but in some subjects, postural dizziness and orthostatic hypotension were observed. When tadalafil was administered with lower doses of alcohol (0.6 g/kg), hypotension was not observed and dizziness occurred with similar frequency to alcohol alone. The effect of alcohol on cognitive function was not augmented by tadalafil (10 mg). 
 Cytochrome P450  metabo lised medicinal products  Tadalafil is not expected to cause clinically significant inhib ition or induction of the clearance of medicinal products metabolised by CYP450 isoforms. Studies have confirmed that tadalafil does not inhibit or induce CYP450 isoforms, including CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19.  
 CYP2C9 substrates (e .g. R-warfarin)  Tadalafil (10 mg and 20 mg) had no clinically significant effect on exposure (AUC) to S -warfarin or R-warfarin (CYP2C9 substrate), nor did tadalafil affect changes in prothrombin time induced by warfarin.  
 Aspirin  Tadalafil (10 mg  and 20 mg) did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by acetyl salicylic acid.  
  8 Antidiabetic medicinal products  Specific interaction studies with antidiabetic medicinal products  were not conducted.  
 
