4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No specific interaction studies were conducted with indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate . Information on the potential for interactions is based on the potential for each of the monotherapy components.  
 Medicinal products known to prolong the QTc interval  
 Like other medicinal products containing a beta 2-adrenergic agonist, this medicinal product should be administered with caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, or medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval, as any effect of these on the QT interval may be potentiated. Medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval may increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmia (see section s 4.4 and 5.1).  
 Hypokalaemic treatment  
 Concomitant hypokalaemic  treatment with methylxanthine derivatives, steroids, or non-potassium -sparing diuretics may potentiate the possible hypokalaemic effect of beta 2-adrenergic agonists (see section  4.4). 
 Beta-adrenergic blockers  
 Beta-adrenergic blockers may weaken or antag onise the effect of beta 2-adrenergic agonists. Therefore, this medicinal product  should not be given together with beta -adrenergic blockers unless there are compelling reasons for their use. Where required, cardioselective beta -adrenergic blockers should b e preferred, although they should be administered with caution.  
 Interaction with CYP3A4 and P -glycoprotein inhibitors  
 Inhibition of CYP3A4 and P -glycoprotein (P -gp) has no impact on the safety of therapeutic doses of Enerzair Breezhaler . 
 Inhibition of the key contributors of indacaterol clearance (CYP3A4 and P -gp) or mometasone furoate clearance (CYP3A4) raises the systemic exposure of indacaterol or mometasone fur oate up to two-fold. 
 Due to the very low plasma concentration achieved after inhaled dosing, clinically significant interactions with mometasone furoate are unlikely. However, there may be a potential for increased systemic exposure to mometasone furoate when strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, itraconazole, nelfinavir, ritonavir, cobicistat) are co -administered.  
 Cimetidine or other inhibitors of organic cation transport  
 In a clinical study in healthy volunteers, cimetidine, an inhibitor of orga nic cation transport which is thought to contribute to the renal excretion of glycopyrronium, increased total exposure (AUC) to glycopyrronium by 22% and decreased renal clearance by 23%. Based on the magnitude of these changes, no clinically relevant drug  interaction is expected when glycopyrronium is co -administered with cimetidine or other inhibitors of the organic cation transport.  
 Other long -acting antimuscarinics and long -acting beta 2-adrenergic agonists  
 The co -administration of this medicinal produ ct with other medicinal products containing long -acting muscarinic antagonists or long -acting beta 2-adrenergic agonists has not been studied and is not recommended as it may potentiate adverse reactions (see section s 4.8 and 4.9).  
 8 