4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Semaglutide delay s gastric emptying and could potentially influence the absorption of concomitantly administered oral medicinal products. No clinically relevant effect on the rate of gastric emptying was observed with semaglutide 2.4 mg, probably due to a tolerance effect. Semaglutide should be used with caution in patients receiving oral medicinal products that require rapid gastrointestinal absorption.  
 Paracetamol  
 Semaglutide delays the rate of gastric emptying as assessed by paracetamol pharmacokinetics during a standardised meal test. Paracetamol AUC
0-60min  and C max were decreased by 27% and 23%, respectively, following concomitant use of semaglutide 1  mg. The total paracetamol exposure (AUC 0-5h) was not affected. N o clinically relevant effect on paracetamol was observed with semaglutide. No dose adjustment of paracetamol is necessary when administered with semaglutide.  
 Oral contraceptives 
 Semaglutide is not anticipated to decrease the effectiveness of oral contraceptives. It did not change the overall exposure of ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel to a clinically relevant degree, when an oral contraceptive combination medicinal product (0. 03 mg ethinylestradiol/0.15 mg levonorgestrel) was co-administered with semaglutide. Exposure of ethinylestradiol was not affected; an increase of 20% was observed for levonorgestrel exposure at steady state. Cmax was not affected for any of the compounds.  
 Atorvastatin  
 Semaglutide did not change the overall exposure of atorvastatin following a single dose administration of atorvastatin (40 mg). Atorvastatin Cmax was decreased by 38%. This was assessed not to be clinically relevant.  
 Digoxin  
 Semaglutide did not change the overall exposure or Cmax of digoxin following a single dose of digoxin (0.5 mg). 
 Metformin 
 Semaglutide did not change the overall exposure or Cmax of metformin following dosing of 500 mg twice daily over 3.5  days.  
 Warfarin a nd other coumarin derivat ives 
 Semaglutide did not change overall exposure or Cmax of R- and S -warfarin following a single dose of warfarin (25  mg), and the pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin as measured by the international normalised ratio  (INR) were not affected in a clinically relevant manner. However, cases of decreased INR have been reported during concomitant use of acenocoumarol and semaglutide. Upon initiation of semaglutide treatment in patients on warfarin or other coumarin derivatives, frequent monitoring of INR is recommended.  
 8 
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
