4.5 and 5.1 ). 
 Patients treated with rivaroxaban and antiplatelet agents  should only receive concomitant treatment with NSAIDs if the benefit outweighs the bleeding risk.  
 Other haemorrhagic risk factors  
 As with other antithrombotics, rivaroxaban is not recommended in patients with an increased bleeding risk such as:  
• congenit al or acquired bleeding disorders  
• uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension  
• other gastrointestinal disease without active ulceration that can potentially lead to bleeding complications (e.g. inflammatory bowel disease, oesophagitis, gastritis and gastroeso phageal reflux disease)  
• vascular retinopathy  
• bronchiectasis or history of pulmonary bleeding  
 It should be used with caution in ACS and CAD/PAD patients:  
• ≥ 75 years of age if co -administered with ASA alone or with ASA plus clopidogrel or ticlopidine . The benefit -risk of the treatment should be individually assessed on a regular basis.  
• with low er body weight (<  60 kg) if co -administered with ASA alone or with ASA plus clopidogrel or ticlopidine . 
• CAD patients with severe symptomatic heart failure. Study data indicate that such patients may benefit less from treatmen t with rivaroxaban (see section  5.1). 
 Patients with cancer  Patients with malignant disease may simultaneously be at higher risk of bleeding and thrombosis. The individual benefit of antithrombotic treatment should be weighed against risk for bleeding in patients with active cancer dependent on tumour location, antineoplastic therapy and stage of dis ease. Tumours located in the gastrointestinal or genitourinary tract have been associated with an increased risk of bleeding during rivaroxaban therapy.  In patients  with malignant  neoplasms  at high risk of bleeding,  the use of rivaroxaban  is contraindicate d (see section  4.3). 
 Patients with prosthetic valves  
 Rivaroxaban should not be used for thromboprophylaxis in patients having recently undergone transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Safety and efficacy of rivaroxaban  have not been studied in pa tients with prosthetic heart valves; therefore, there are no data to support that rivaroxaban  provides adequate anticoagulation in this patient population. Treatment with Rivaroxaban Accord  is not recommended for these patients.  
 Patients with prior stroke and/or TIA  
 Patients with ACS   Rivaroxaban  2.5 mg is contraindicated for the treatment of ACS in patients with a prior stroke or TIA ( see section  4.3). Few ACS patients with a prior stroke  or TIA have been studied but the limited efficacy data available indicate that these patients do not benefit from treatment.  
 Patients with CAD/PAD   CAD/PAD patients with previous haemorrhagic or lacunar stroke, or an ischaemic, non -lacunar stroke with in the previous month were not studied (see section  4.3).  Patients after recent revascularisation procedures of the lower limb due to symptomatic PAD with a previous stroke or TIA were not studied. Treatment with Rivaroxaban  2.5 mg should be avoided in these patients receiving dual antiplatelet therapy.  
 Patients  with antiphospholipid syndrome   
 Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban are not recommended for patients with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. In particular for patients that are triple pos itive (for lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and anti-beta 2-glycoprotein  I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be associated with increased rates of recurrent thrombotic events compared with vitamin K antagonist therapy.  
 Spinal/epidura l anaesthesia or puncture  
 When neuraxial anaesthesia (spinal/epidural anaesthesia) or spinal/epidural puncture is employed, patients treated with antithrombotic agents for prevention of thromboembolic complications are at risk of developing an epidural or  spinal haematoma which can result in long -term or permanent paralysis. The risk of these events may be increased by the post -operative use of indwelling epidural catheters or the concomitant use of medicinal products affecting haemostasis. The risk may al so be increased by traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. Patients are to be frequently monitored for signs and symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g. numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel or bladder dysfunction). If neurological compromis e is noted, urgent diagnosis and treatment is necessary. Prior to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the potential benefit versus the risk in anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis. There is no clinical experience with the use of Rivaroxaban  2.5 mg and antiplatelet agents  in these situations.  Platelet aggregation inhibitors should be discontinued as suggested by the manufacturer’s prescribing information.  To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concurrent use of rivaroxaban and neuraxial (epidural/spinal) anaesthesia or sp inal puncture, consider the pharmacokinetic profile of rivaroxaban. Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lumbar puncture is best performed when the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is estimated to be low (see section  5.2). However, the exact timing to reach a sufficiently low anticoagulant effect in each patient is not known.  
 Dosing recommendations before and after invasive procedures and surgical intervention  
 If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, Rivaroxaban Accord  2.5 mg should be stopped at least 12  hours before the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the physician. If a patient is to undergo elective surgery and anti -platelet effect is not desired, platelet aggregation inhibitors shoul d be discontinued as directed by the manufacturer’s prescribing information.  If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased risk of bleeding should be assessed against the urgency of the intervention.  Rivaroxaban Accord  should be restarted as soon as pos sible after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention provided the clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established as determined by the treating physician (see section  5.2). 
 Elderly population  
 Increasing age may increase haemorrhagic risk (see section s 5.1 and  5.2). 
 Dermatological reactions   Serious skin reactions, including Stevens -Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis and DRESS  syndrome, have been reported during post -marketing surveillance in association  with the use of rivaroxaban (see section  4.8). Patients appear to be at highest risk for these reactions early in the course of therapy: the onset of the reaction occurring in the majority of cases within the first weeks of treatment. Rivaroxaban should b e discontinued at the first appearance of a severe skin rash (e.g. spreading, intense and/or blistering), or any other sign of hypersensitivity in conjunction with mucosal lesions.  
 Information about excipients  
 Rivaroxaban Accord  contains lactose. Patient s with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose -galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product.  This medicin al product  contains less than 1  mmol sodium (23  mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially  
“sodium -free”.  
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 CYP3A4 and P -gp inhibitors  
 Co-administration of rivaroxaban with ketoconazole (400  mg once a day) or ritonavir (600  mg twice a day) led to a 2.6 -fold / 2.5-fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7 -fold / 1.6-fold increase in mean rivaroxaban C max, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which may lead to an increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of rivaroxaban  is not recommend ed in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with azole -antimycotics such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole and posaconazole or HIV protease inhibitors. These active substances are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P -gp (see section  4.4). 
 Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a lesser extent. Clarithromycin (500 mg twice a day), for instance, considered as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and moderate P -gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 -fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.4 -fold increase in C max. The interaction with clarithromycin is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but ca n be potentially significant in high-risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section  4.4). 
 Erythromycin (500  mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P -gp moderately, led to a 1.3 -fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and C max. The  interaction with erythromycin is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high -risk patients.  In subjects with mild renal impairment erythromycin (500  mg three times a day) led to a 1.8 -fold increase in mean ri varoxaban AUC and 1.6 -fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with normal renal function. In subjects with moderate renal impairment, erythromycin led to a 2.0 -fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 -fold increase in Cmax when compared to sub jects with normal renal function. The effect of erythromycin is additive to that of renal impairment (see section  4.4). 
 Fluconazole (400  mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 -fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1. 3-fold increase in mean C max. The interaction with fluconazole is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high -risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section  4.4). 
 Given the limited clinical d ata available with dronedarone, co -administration with rivaroxaban should be avoided.  
 Anticoagulants  
 After combined administration of enoxaparin (40  mg single dose) with rivaroxaban (10  mg single dose) an additive effect on anti -factor  Xa activity was ob served without any additional effects on clotting tests (PT, a 
 PTT). Enoxaparin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban.  Due to the increased bleeding risk care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with any other anticoagulants (s ee sections  4.3 and  4.4). 
 NSAIDs/platelet aggregation inhibitors  
 No clinically relevant prolongation of bleeding time was observed after concomitant administration of rivaroxaban (15  mg) and 500  mg naproxen. Nevertheless, there may be individuals with a more pronounced pharmacodynamic response.  No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when rivaroxaban was co -administered with 500  mg acetylsalicylic acid.  Clopidogrel (300  mg loading dose followed by 75  mg main tenance dose) did not show a pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15  mg) but a relevant increase in bleeding time was observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to platelet aggregation, P -selectin or GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels.  Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal products typically increase the bleeding risk (see section  4.4). 
 SSRIs/SNRIs  
 As with other anticoagulants the possibility may exist that patients are at increased risk of bleeding in case of concomitant use with SSRIs or SNRIs due to their reported effect on platelets. When concomitantly used in the rivaroxaban clinical programme, num erically higher rates of major or non -major clinically relevant bleeding were observed in all treatment groups.  
 Warfarin  
 Converting patients from the vitamin  K antagonist warfarin (INR  2.0 to  3.0) to rivaroxaban (20  mg) or from rivaroxaban (20  mg) to war farin (INR  2.0 to  3.0) increased prothrombin time/INR (Neoplastin) more than additively (individual INR values up to 12 may be observed), whereas effects on a 
 PTT, inhibition of factor Xa activity and endogenous thrombin potential were additive.  If it is de sired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban during the conversion period, anti -factor Xa activity, Pi 
 CT, and Heptest can be used as these tests were not affected by warfarin. On the fourth day after the last dose of warfarin, all tests (includ ing PT, a 
 PTT, inhibition of factor Xa activity and ETP) reflected only the effect of rivaroxaban.  If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin during the conversion period, INR measurement can be used at the C trough of rivaroxaban (24  hours after the previous intake of rivaroxaban) as this test is minimally affected by rivaroxaban at this time point.  No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between warfarin and rivaroxaban.  
 CYP3A4 inducers  
 Co-administration of rivaroxaban with the s trong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin led to an approximate 50  % decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases in its pharmacodynamic effects. The concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenob arbital or St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum) ) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban plasma concentrations. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and symptoms o f thrombosis.  
 Other concomitant therapies  
 No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when rivaroxaban was co -administered with midazolam (substrate of CYP3A4), digoxin (substrate of P -gp), atorvastatin (substr ate of CYP3A4 and P -gp) or omeprazole (proton pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4.   No clinically relevant interaction with food was observed (see section  4.2). 
 Laboratory parameters   Clotting param eters (e.g. PT, a 
 PTT, Hep 
 Test) are affected as expected by the mode of action of rivaroxaban (see section  5.1). 
 
