4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of in teraction  
 In vitro studies indicate that bortezomib is a weak inhibitor of the  cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes 
1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4. Based on the limited contribution (7%) of CYP2D6 to the metabolism  of bortezomib, the CYP2D6 poor metaboliser phenotype is not expected to affect the overall  disposition of bortezomib.   
15 
  A drug- drug interaction study assessing the effect of ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, on the  pharmacokinetics of bortezomib (injected intravenously), showed a mean bortezomib AUC increase of  
35% (CI 90% [1.032 to 1.772]) based on data from 12 patients. Therefore, patients should be closely monitored when given bortezomib in combination with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole,  ritonavir).  
 In a drug-drug interaction study assessing the effect of omeprazole, a potent CYP2C19 inhibitor, on  the pharmacokinetics of bortezomib (injected intravenously), there was no significant effect on the  pharmacokinetics of bortezomib based on data from 17 patients.  
 A drug- drug interaction study assessing the effect of rifampicin, a potent CYP3A4 inducer, on the pharmacokinetics of bortezomib (injected intravenously), showed a mean bortezomib AUC reduction of 45% based on data from 6 patients. Therefore, the concomitant use of bortezomib with strong  CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital and St. John’s Wort) is  not recommended, as efficacy may be reduced.  
 In the same drug- drug interaction study assessing the effect of dexamethasone, a weak er CYP3A4  inducer, on the pharmacokinetics of bortezomib (injected intravenously), there was no significant  effect on the  pharmacokinetics of bortezomib based on data from 7 patients.  
 A drug- drug interaction study assessing the effect of melphalan-prednis one on the pharmacokinetics of  bortezomib (injected intravenously), showed a mean bortezomib AUC increase of 17% based on data  from 21 patients. This is not considered clinically relevant.  
 During clinical trials, hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia were uncommonly and commonly reported in diabetic patients receiving oral hypoglycemics. Patients on oral antidiabetic agents receiving  Bortezomib Hospira  treatment may require close monitoring of their blood glucose levels and adjustment of the dose of their antidiabetics.  
 