4.5 Interactio n with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No interaction studies have been performed with Cholib.  Interactions relevant to monotherapies  Inhibitors of CYP  3A4 Simv astatin is a substrate of cytochrome P45 0 3A4. 
 Multiple mechanisms ma y contribute to potential interactions with HMG Co -A reductase inhibitors. Drugs or herbal products that inhibit certain enzymes (e.g. CYP3A4) and/or transporter (e.g. OATP1B) pathways m ay increase simvastatin and simvastatin acid plasma concentrations and may lead to an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.  Potent inhibitors of cytochrome P450 3A4  increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis by increasing the concentration of H MG-Co 
 A r eductase inhibitory activity in plasma during simvastatin therapy. Such inhibitors include itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors (e.g. nelfinavir), cobicistat and nefazodone. 
 Combination with itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, HIV protease inhibitors (e.g. nelfinavir), cobicistat , erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin and nefazodone is contraindicated (see section  4.3). If treatment with itraconazole, ketoconazole , posaco nazole, erythromycin, clarithrom ycin or telithromycin is unavoidable, therapy with Cholib must be suspended during the course of treatment. Caution should be exercised when combining Cholib with certain other less potent 
 CYP  3A4  inhibitors: flucon azole, v erapamil, or diltiazem (see sect ions 4.3 and 4.4). 
 Consult the prescribing information of all concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about their potential interactions with simvastatin and/or the potential for enzyme or transporter alterat ions and possible adjustments to dose and regimens.
 
 Danazol The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of danazol with simvastatin. The dose of simvastatin should not exceed 10 mg daily in patients taking danazol. Therefore, the co- administration of Cholib with danazol is cont raindicated (see section  4.3). 
 Ciclosporin  The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of ciclosporin with simvastatin. Although the mechanism is not fully understood, ciclosporin has been shown to increase the plasma ex posure (AUC) to simvastatin acid, presumably due in part to inhibition of CYP 3A4  and OATP -1B1 transporter. Because the dose of simvastatin should not exceed  10 mg daily in patients taking ciclo sporin, the co-administration of Cholib with ciclosporin is co ntraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 8 Amiodarone, amlodipine, diltiazem and verapamil The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant use of amiodarone, amlodipine, dilti azem or verapamil with simvastatin  40 mg  per day. 
 In a clinical trial, myopathy was reported in 6% of patients receiving simvastatin  80 mg and amiodarone, versus  0.4% in patients on simvastatin 80 mg only. 
 Concomitant administration of amlodipine and sim vastatin  caused a  1.6-fold increase in e xposure of simvastatin acid.  
 Concomitant administration of diltiazem and simvastatin caused a  2.7-fold increase in exposure of simvastatin acid, presumable due to inhibition of CYP 3A4. 
 Concomitant administration o f verapa mil and simvastatin resulted in a 2.3- fold increase in plasma exposure to simvastatin acid, presumably due, in part, to inhibition of CYP 3A4.  Therefore, the dose of Cholib should not exceed 145 mg/20 mg daily in patients taking amiodarone, amlodipine, di ltiazem or verapamil.  
 Inhibitor s of Breast Cancer Resistant P rotein (BCRP)  Concomitant administration of medicinal products that are inhibitors of BCRP, including products containing elbasvir or grazoprevir, may lead to increased plasma concentrat ions of simvastatin and an increased risk of myopathy (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
 Other statins and fibrates  Gemfibrozil increases the AUC of simvastatin acid by  1.9-fold, possibly due to inhibition of the glucuronidation pathway. The risk of myopathy and rhabdom yolysis is significantly increas ed by concomitant use of gemfi brozil with simvastatin. The risk of rhabdomyolysis is also increased in patients concomitantly receiving other fibrates or statins. Therefore, the co -administration of Cholib with gemfibrozil, other fibrates, or statins is contraindicated (see section  4.3).  
 Niacin (nicotinic acid)  Cases of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis have been associated with concomitant administration of statins and niacin (nicotinic acid) at lipid- modifying doses (≥  1 g/day), knowing that niacin and statins can cause myopathy when given alone. 
 Physicians contemplatin g combined therapy with Cholib and lipid- modifying doses (≥  1 g/day) of niacin (nicotinic acid) or medicinal products containing niacin should carefully weigh the pot ential benefits and risks and should carefully monitor patients for any signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly during the initial months of therapy and when the dose of either medicinal product is increased.  
 Fusid ic acid  The risk of myopathy including rhabdomyolysis may be increased by the concomitant administ ration of systemic fusidic acid with statins. Co- administration of this combination may cause increased plasma concentrations of both agents. The mechanism of this in teraction (whether it is pharmacodynamics or pharmacokinetic, or both) is yet unknown. The re have been reports of rhabdomyolysis (including some fatalities) in patients receiving this combination.  
 If treatment with fusidic acid is necessary, Choli b treatm ent should be discontinued throughout the duration of the fusidic acid treatment. (Also se e section  4.4). 
 Grapefruit juice Grapefruit juice inhibits CYP  3A4. Concomitant intake of large quantities (over 1 liter daily) of grapefruit juice and simva statin r esulted in a  7-fold increase in plasma exposure to simvastatin acid. Intake of 240 m 
 L of g rapefruit juice in the morning and simvastatin in the evening also resulted in 9 a 1.9- fold increase in plasma exposure to simvastatin acid. Intake of grapefruit juice during treatment with Cholib should therefore be avoided. 
 Colchicine There have been repo rts of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis with the concomitant administration of colchicine and simvastatin in patients with renal insufficiency. Therefore, close cl inical monitoring of such patients taking colchicine and Cholib is advised.  
 Vitamin K antagonists Fenofibrate and simvastatin enhance effects of Vitamin K antagonists  and may increase the risk of bleeding. It is recommended that the dose of those oral anticoagulants is reduced by about one third at the start of treatment and then gradually adjusted if necessary according to INR (International Normalised Ratio) monitoring. INR should be determined before starting Cholib and frequently enough during early therapy to  ensure that no significant alteration of INR occurs. Once a stable INR has been documented, it can be monitored at the intervals usually recommended for patients on those oral anticoagulants. If the dose of Cholib is changed or discontinued, the s ame proc edure should be repeated. Cholib therapy has not been associated with bleeding in patients  not taking anticoagulants.  
 Glitazones Some cases of reversible paradoxical reduction of HDL -C have been reported during concomitant administration of fenofi brate an d glitazones. Therefore it is recommended to monitor HDL -C if Cholib is co-administered with a glitazone and stopping either therapy if HDL -C is too low.  
 Rifampicin  Because rifampicin is a potent CYP  3A4  inducer that interferes with simvastatin me tabolism , patients undertaking long-term rifampicin therapy (e.g. treatment of tuberculosis) may e xperience loss of efficacy of simvastatin. In normal volunteers, the plasma exposure to simvastatin acid was decreased by 93% with concomitant administration of rifam picin. 
 Effects on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products  Fenofibrate and simvas tatin are not CYP  3A4  inhibitors or inducers. Therefore, Cholib is not expected to affect plasma concentrations of substances metabolised via CYP  3A4. 
 Fenofi brate an d simvastatin are not inhibitors of CYP 2D6, CYP 2E1, or CYP 1A2. Fenofibrate is a mild to  moderate inhibitor of CYP 2C9  and a weak inhibitor of CYP 2C19 and CYP  2A6. 
 Patients receiving co -administration of Cholib and drugs metabolised by CYP  2C19 , CYP  2A6, or especially CYP  2C9  with a narrow therapeutic index should be carefully monitored and, if necessary, dose adjustment of these drugs is recommended.  
 Interaction between simvastatin and fenofibrate Effects of repeated administration of fenofibr ate on t he pharmacokinetics of single or multiple doses of simvastatin have been investigated in t wo small studies (n=12) followed by a larger one (n=  85) in healthy subjects.  
 In one study the AUC of the simvastatin acid (SVA), a major active metabolite of simvas tatin, was reduced by 42% (90%  CI 24% -56%) when a single dose of 40 mg simvastatin was combined with repeated administration of fenofibrate 160 mg. In the other study [Bergman et al, 2004] repeated co-administration of both simvastatin 80 mg and fenofibrate 160 mg led to a reduction in the AUC of the SVA of  36% (90%  CI 30%-42%). In the larger s tudy a reduction of  21% (90%  CI 14%- 27%) in AUC of SVA was observed after repeated co -administration of simvastatin  40 mg and fenofibrate  145 mg in the evening. This was not significantly different from the  29% (90% CI  22%-35%) reduction in AUC of SVA observed when co- administration was  12 hours apart: simvastatin  40 mg in the evening and fenofibrate 145  mg in the morning. 
 Whether fenofibrate had an effect on other ac tive metabolites of simvastatin was not investigated.  
 10 The exact mechanism of interaction is not known. In the available clinical data,  the effect on LDL- C reduction was not considered to be significantly different to simvastatin monotherapy when L DL-C is controlled at the time of initiating treatment.  
 The repeated administration of simvastatin 40 or 80 mg, the highest dose registered, did not affect the plasma levels of fenofibric acid at steady state.  
 Prescribing recommendations for interacting substances are summarised in the table below (see also sections 4.2 and 4.3). 
 Interacting substan ces Prescribing recommendations  Potent CYP  3A4 inhibitors:  Itraconazole  Ketoconazole  Fluconazole  Posaconazole  Erythromycin  Clarithromycin  Telithromycin  HIV p rotease inhibitors (e.g. nelfinavir)  Nefazodone Cobicistat  Contraindicated with Cholib Danazol  Ciclosporin  Contraindicated with Cholib  Gemfibrozil, Other statins and fibrates  Contraindicated with Cholib  Amiodarone  Verapamil  Diltiazem  Amlodipine  Do not exceed o ne Cholib 145 mg/20  mg per day, unless clinical benefit outweigh the risk  Elbasvir  Grazop revir  Do not exceed one Cholib 145 mg/20 mg per day Glecaprevir  Pibrentasvir  Contraindicated with Cholib Niacin (nicotinic acid) ≥  1 g/day Avoid with Cholib  unless clinical benefit outweigh the risk Monitor patients for any signs and symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness or weakness  Fusidic acid  Patients should be closely monitored. Temporary suspension of Cholib treatment may be considered  Grapefruit juice  Avoid when taking Cholib  Vitamin K antagonists  Adjust the dose of these oral anticoagulants according to INR monitoring  Glitazones  Monitor HDL -C and stop either therapy (glitazone or Cholib) if HDL -C is too low  
 