4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other fo rms of interaction  
 The amount of al coho l in this medicinal product may alter the ef fects of other med icinal prod ucts. 
 Co-administration with medicine s containing e.g.propylen e glycol or  ethanol may lead to accumulation of  ethanol and induce adverse effec ts, in particular in young  children with low or immature metabolic capacity.  
 In vit ro studies have sh own th at the metabolism of docetaxel may be modif ied by the concomi tant administration of compounds which induce, inhibit or are metabolised by (and  thus may inhibit the enzyme competitively) cytochrome P450 -3A such as ciclosporine, ketoc onazole  and erythr omycin . As a result, caution should be exercised when treating pati ents wi th these medicinal products as concomitant therapy since there is a pote ntial for a significant interaction.  In case of combination with CYP3A4 inhibitors, the occu rrence of docetaxe l adve rse reactions may increase, as a result of reduced metabolism . If the concomitant use of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itra conazo le, clarithromycin, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithro mycin and voricona zole) canno t be avoided, a close clinical surveil lance is warranted  and a dose-adjustment of docetaxel may be suitable during the treatment with t he str ong CYP3A4 inhibitor (see section 4.4). In a pharmacokinetic study with 7 patients, th e co-administratio n of d oceta xel with the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor k etoconazole leads to a significant decrease in docetaxel clearance by 
49%.  Docetaxel pharmacokine tics i n the presence of prednisone was studied in patients with metastatic prostate cancer. Docetaxel is metab olised  by C YP3A4 and prednisone is known to induc e CYP3A4. No stati sticall y significant effect of prednisone on the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel was ob served.  
 Docetaxel is highly protein bound (>  95%). Although the possible in vivo  interaction of docetax el wit h concomitantly administered medicinal prod uct has not been i nvestig ated formally, in vitro  interactions with tightly protein -bound agents s uch as  erythromycin, diphenhydramine, propranolol, propafenone, phenytoin, salicylate, sulfa methoxazole and so dium v alpro ate did not affect protein binding of docetaxel. In addi tion, d examethasone did not affect protein binding of docetaxel. Docetaxel did not influence the binding of digitoxin.  
 The pharmacokinetics of docetaxel, doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide w ere no t influenced by their co-administration. Li mited data from a single uncontrolled study were suggestive of an interaction between docetaxel a nd car boplatin. When combined to docetaxel, the clearance of carboplatin was about 50% highe r than values prev iously  reported for carboplatin monotherapy.  
 
 
