4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Ivacaftor is a substrate of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. It is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and a potential inhibitor of CYP2C9.  In vitro  studies showed that ivacaftor is not a substrate for P-gp.  
 Medicinal products affecting the pharmacokinetics of ivacaftor  
 CYP3A inducers  
 Co-administration of ivacaftor with rifampicin, a strong CYP3A inducer, decreased ivacaftor exposure (AUC) by 89% and decreased hydroxymethyl ivacaftor ( M1) to a lesser extent than ivacaftor. Co-administration of ivacaftor with strong CYP3A inducers, such as rifampicin, rifabutin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin and St. John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ), is not recommended (see section  4.4). 
 No dose adjustment is recommended when ivacaftor is used with moderate or weak CYP3A inducers.  
 11 CYP3A inhibitors  
 Ivacaftor is a sensitive CYP3A substrate. Co -administration with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, increased ivacaftor exposure (measured as area under the curve [AUC]) by 8.5- fold and increased M1 to a lesser extent than ivacaftor. A reduction of the ivacaftor dose is recommended for co-administration with strong CYP3A inhibitors, such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, telithromycin and clarithromycin (see Table 2 in section  4.2 and section 4.4). 
 Co-administration with fluconazole, a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A, increased ivacaftor exposure by 
3-fold and increased M1 to a lesser extent than ivacaftor. A reduction of the ivacaftor dose is recommended for patients taking concomitant moderate CYP3A inhibitors, such as fluconazole , erythromycin, and verapamil  (see Table 2 in section  4.2 and section 4.4). 
 Co-administration of ivacaftor with grapefruit juice, which contains one or more components that moderately inhibit CYP3A, may increase exposure to ivacaftor. Food or drink containing grapefruit should be avoided during treatment with ivacaftor (see section  4.2). 
 Potential for ivacaftor to interact with transporters  
 In vitro  studies showed that ivacaftor is not a substrate for OATP1B1 or OATP1B3. Ivacaftor and its metabolites are substrates of BCRP in vitro . Due to its high intrinsic permeability and low likelihood of being excreted intact, co -administration of BCRP inhibitors is not expected to alter exposure of ivacaftor and M1 -IVA, while any potential changes in M6- IVA exposures are not expected to be clinically relevant.  
 Ciprofloxacin 
 Co-administration of ciprofloxacin with ivacaftor did not affect the exposure of ivacaftor. No dose adjustment is required when i vacaftor  is co-administered with ciprofloxacin.  
 Medicinal products affected by ivacaftor  
 Administration of ivacaftor may increase systemic exposure of medicinal products that are sensitive substrates of CYP2C9 , and/or P-gp, and/or CYP3A which may increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions.  
 CYP2C9 substrates  
 Ivacaftor may inhibit CYP2C9. Therefore, monitoring of the international normalised ratio (INR) is recommended during co- administration of warfarin with ivacaftor . Other medicinal products for which exposure may be increased include glimepiride and glipizide; these medicinal products should be used with caution.  
 Digoxin and other P -gp substrates  
 Co-administration with digoxin, a sensitive P -gp substrate, increased digoxin exposure by 1.3- fold, consistent with weak inhibition of P -gp by ivacaftor. Administration of ivacaftor may increase systemic exposure of medicinal products that are sensitive substrates of P -gp, which may increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. When used concomitantly with digoxin or other substrates of P -gp with a narrow therapeutic index, such as ciclosporin, everolimus, sirolimus or tacrolimus, caution and appropriate monitoring should be used.  
 CYP3A substrates  
 Co-administration with (oral) midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A substrate, increased midazolam exposure 
1.5-fold, consistent with weak inhibition of CYP3A by ivacaftor. No dose adjustment of CYP3A 12 substrates, such as midazolam, alprazolam, diazepam or triazolam, is required when these are co-administered with ivacaftor.  
 Hormonal contraceptives  
 Ivacaftor has been studied with an oestrogen/progesterone oral contraceptive and was found to have no significant effect on the exposures of the oral contraceptive. Therefore, no dose adjustment of oral contraceptives is necessary.  
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 