4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 In vitro , it has been shown, that certain medicinal products can inhibit  bulevirtide target sodium -taurocholate co -transporting polypeptide (NTCP). The co-administration of such  medicinal products (e.g. sulfasalazin, irbesartan, ezetimibe, ritonavir, and ciclosporin A) is not recommended.  
 As a precautionary measure, close clinical monitoring is warranted when NTCP substrates (e.g. estrone-3-sulfate, fluvastatin, atorvastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, and thyroid hormones) are co-administered  with bulevirtide . When possible, co -administration of these substrates should be avoided.  
 In vitro  an inhibition of OATP1B 1/3 transporters by bulevirtide was observed, albeit only at a concentration ≥ 0.5 µM, which is only reached in vivo  after administration of high bulevirtide doses (10 mg subcutaneous ). The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. As a precautionary measure, close clinical monitoring is warranted when OATP1B1/3  substrates (e.g. a torvastatin, bosentan, docetaxel, fexofenadine, g lecaprevir, g lyburide (glibenclamide), g razoprevir, n ateglinide, paclitaxel, paritaprevir, pitavastatin, p ravastatin, repaglinide, rosuvastatin, simeprevir, simvastatin, olmesartan, t elmisartan, valsartan, v oxilaprevir) are co -admi nistered. When possible, co -administration of these substrates should be avoided . 
 In a clinical study in healthy subjects, co -administration of tenofovir and bulevirtide revealed no impact on tenofovir pharmacokinetic s. 
 No CYP inhibition by bulevirtide w as observed in  vitro  at clinically relevant concentrations. However, in a clinical study, an approximately 40% increase in geometric mean of partial AUC
2-4h values of co-administered midazolam  (CYP3A4 substrate)  was observed in combination of high dose bulevirtide  (10 mg) and tenofovir  (245 mg), whereas no significant influence on midazolam AUC 2-4h was detected for tenofovir alone . As a precautionary measure, close clinical monitoring is warranted  
5 for co -administered narrow-therapeutic-index drugs which  are sensitive CYP3A4  substrates (e.g. cyclosporine, carbamazepine, simvastatin, sirolimus, and tacrolimus).  
 
