4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 The potential for P450 mediated interactions with other medicinal products involving abacavir is low. In vitro studies have show n that abacavir has potential to inhibit cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1). P450 does not play a major role in the metabolism of abacavir, and abacavir shows limited potential to inhibit metabolism mediated by CYP 3A4. Abacavir has also been shown in vitro  not to inhibit, CYP2C9 or CYP2D6 enzymes at clinically relevant concentrations. Induction of hepatic metabolism  has not been observed in clinical studies. Therefore, there is little potential for interactions with antiretroviral PIs and other medicinal pr oducts metabolised by major P450 enzymes. Clinical studies have shown that there are no clinically significant interactions between abacavir, zidovudine, and lamivudine.  
 Potent enzymatic inducers such as rifampicin, phenobarbital and phenytoin may via the ir action on UDP -glucuronyltransferases slightly decrease the plasma concentrations of abacavir.  
 Ethanol:  the metabolism of abacavir is altered by concomitant ethanol resulting in an increase in AUC of abacavir of about 41%. These findings are not considered clinically significant. Abacavir has no effect on the metabolism of ethanol.  
 Methadone : in a pharmacokinetic study, co- administration of 600 mg abacavir twice daily with methadone showed a 35% reduction in abacavir Cmax and a one hour delay in t max but the AUC was unchanged. The changes in abacavir pharmacokinetics are not considered clinically relevant. In this study abacavir increased the mean methadone systemic clearance by 22%. The induction of drug metabolising enzymes cannot therefore be exclud ed. Patients being treated with methadone and abacavir should be monitored for evidence of withdrawal symptoms indicating under dosing, as occasionally methadone re- titration may be required.  7  Retinoids:  retinoid compounds are eliminated via alcohol dehydrogenase. Interaction with abacavir is possible but has not been studied.  
 Riociguat:  In vitro, abacavir inhibits CYP1A1. Concomitant administration of a single dose of riociguat (0.5 mg) to HIV patients receiving the combination of abacavir/dolutegravir/l amivudine (600mg/50mg/300mg once daily) led to an approximately three -fold higher riociguat AUC(0- ∞) when compared to historical riociguat AUC(0- ∞) reported in healthy subjects. Riociguat dose may need to be reduced . Consult the riociguat prescribing infor mation  for dosing recommendations.  
 
