4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No formal interaction studies with other medicinal products have been performed with Dafiro HCT . Thus, only information on interactions with other medicinal products that are known for the individual active substances is provided in this section.  
 However,  it is important to take into account that Dafiro HCT  may increase the hypotensive effect of other antihypertensive agents.  
 Concomitant use not recommended  
 Dafiro HCT  individual component  Known interactions with the following agents  Effect of the interaction with other medicinal products  Valsartan and HCT  Lithium  Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists including valsartan or thiazides. Since renal clearance of lithium is reduced by thiazides, the risk of lithium toxicity may presumably be increased further with Dafiro HCT . Therefore careful monitoring of serum lithium concentrations is recommended during  concomitant use.  Valsartan  Potassium -sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium and other substances that may increase potassium levels  If a medicinal product that affects potassium levels is considered necessary in combination with valsartan, frequent monitoring of potassium plasma levels is advised.  Amlodipine  Grapefruit or grapefruit juice  Administration of amlodipine with grapefruit or grapefruit juice is not recommended as bioavailability may be increased in some patients, resulting in increased blood pressure lowering effects.  
 
  10 Caution required with concomitant use  
 Dafiro HCT  individual component  Known interactions with the following agents  Effect of the interaction with other medicinal products  Amlodipine  CYP3A4 inhibitors  (i.e. ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir)  Concomitant use of amlodipine with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (protease inhibitors, azole antifungals, macrolides like erythromycin or clarithromycin, verapamil or diltiazem) may give rise to significant increase in amlodipine exposure. The clinical translation of these pharmacokinetic variations may be more pronounced in the elderly. Clinical monitoring and dose adjustment may thus be re quired.  CYP3A4 inducers (anticonvulsant agents 
[e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, fosphenytoin, primidone], rifampicin, Hypericum perforatum 
[St. John’s wort])  Upon co -administration of known inducers of the CYP3A4, the plasma concentration o f amlodipine may vary. Therefore, blood pressure should be monitored and dose regulation considered both during and after concomitant medication particularly with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, hypericum perforatum).  Simvastatin  Co-administration of multiple doses of 10  mg amlodipine with 80  mg simvastatin resulted in a 77% increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone. It is recommended to limit the dose of simvastatin to 20  mg daily in patients on amlodipine.  Dantrolene (infusion)  In animals, lethal ventricular fibrillation and cardiovascular collapse are observed in association with hyperkalaemia after administration of verapamil and intravenous dantrolene. Due to risk of hyperkalaemia, it is recommended th at the co -administration of calcium channel blockers such as amlodipine be avoided in patients susceptible to malignant hyperthermia and in the management of malignant hyperthermia.  Valsartan and HCT  Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs  (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase -2 inhibitors ( COX -2 inhibitors ), acetylsalicylic acid (>3 g/day), and non -selective NSAIDs  NSAIDS can attenuate the antihypertensive effect of both angiotensin II antagonist s and hydrochlorothiazide when administered simultaneously. Furthermore, concomitant use of Dafiro HCT  and NSAIDs may lead to worsening of renal function and an increase in serum potassium. Therefore, monitoring of renal function at the beginning of the tr eatment is recommended, as well as adequate hydration of the patient.  Valsartan  Inhibitors of the uptake transporter (rifampicin, ciclosporin) or efflux transporter (ritonavir)  The results of an in vitro  study with human liver tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and of the hepatic efflux transporter MRP2. Co -administration of inhibitors of the uptake transporter (rifampicin, ciclosporin) or efflux transp orter (ritonavir) may increase the systemic exposure to valsartan.  11 HCT  Alcohol, barbiturates or narcotics  Concomitant administration of thiazide  diuretics with substances  that also have a blood pressure lowering effect (e.g. by reducing sympathetic central nervous system  activity or direct vasodilatation)  may potentiate orthostatic hypotension . Amantadine  Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, may increase the risk of adverse reactions caused by amantadine.  Anticholinergic agents and other medicinal products affecting gastric motility  The bioavailability of thiazide -type diuretics may be increased by anticholinergic agents (e.g. atropine, biperiden), apparentl y due to a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and the stomach emptying rate . Conversely , it is anticipated that prokinetic substances such as cisapride  may decrease the bioavailability of thiazide -type diuretics.  Antidiabetic agents  (e.g. insulin and oral antidiabetic agents)  Thiazides may alter glucose tolerance.  Dose adjustment of the antidiabetic medicinal product may be necessary.  
− Metformin  Metformin should be used with caution because of the risk of lactic acidosis induced by possible functional renal failure linked to hydrochlorothiazide.  Beta blockers and diazoxide  Concomitant use of thiazide diuretics, including hydrochlorothiazide, with beta blockers may increase the risk of hyperglycaemia. Thiazide diuretics, including hydrochlorothiazide, may enhance the hyperglycaemic effect of diazoxide.  
 Ciclosporin  Concomita nt treatment with ciclosporin may increase the risk of hyperuricaemia and gout -type complications . 
 Cytotoxic agents  Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, may reduce the renal excretion of cytotoxic agents (e.g. cyclophosphamide, methotrexate) and potentiate their myelosuppressive effects.  
 Digitalis glycosides  Thiazide -induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnesaemia may occur as undesirable effects, favouring the onset of digitalis -induced cardiac arrhythmias . 
 Iodine contrasting agents  In case of diuretic -induced dehydration, there is an increased risk of acute renal failure, especially with high doses of iodine products. Patients should be re -hydrated before the administration.  
 Ion exchange resins  Absorption of thiazide diuretics , including hydrochlorothiazide,  is decreased by cholestyramine or colestipol . This could result in sub -therapeutic effects of thiazide diuretics.  However, staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4  hours before or 4-6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimise the interaction.  
 Medicinal products affecting serum potassium level  The hypokalaemic effect of hydrochlorothiazide may be increased by concomitant administration of kaliuretic diuretics, corticosteroids, laxatives, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G and salicylic acid derivatives  or antiarrhythmics . If these medicinal products are to  be prescribed with the amlodipine /valsartan 
/hydrochlorothiazide combination, monitoring of potassium plasma levels is advised.  12  Medicinal products  affecting serum sodium level  The hyponatraemic  effect of diuretics may be intensified by concomitant administration of medicinal products such as antidepressants, antipsychotics, antiepileptics, etc. Caution is indicated in long -term administration of these medicinal products.  
 Medicinal products tha t could induce torsades de pointes  Due to the risk of hypokalaemia, hydrochlorothiazide should be administered with caution when associated with medicinal products that could induce torsades de pointes , in particular Class Ia and Class III antiarrhythmics and some antipsychotics.  
 Medicinal products used in the treatment of gout (probenecid, sulfinpyrazone and allopurinol)  Dose adjustment of uricosuric medicinal products may be necessary as hydrochlorothiazide may raise the level of serum uric acid. Increa se of dose of probenecid or sulfinpyrazone may be necessary.  Co-administration of thiazide diuretics, including hydrochlorothiazide, may increase the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol.  
 Methyldopa  There have been isolated reports of haemolytic anaemia occurring with concomitant use of hydrochlorothiazide and methyldopa . 
 Non-depolarising skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine)  Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, potentiate the action of  curare derivatives.  Other anti -hypertensive medicinal products  Thiazides potentiate the antihypertensive action of other antihypertensive drugs (e.g. guanethidine, methyldopa, beta-blockers, vasodilators, calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors, ARBs and Direct Renin Inhibitors 
[DRIs]).  Pressor amines  (e.g. noradrenaline, adrenaline)  Hydrochlorothiazide may reduce the response to pressor amines such as noradrenaline. The clinical significance of this effect is uncertain and not sufficient to preclude their use. Vitamin D and calcium salts Administration of thiazide diuretics , including hydrochlorothiazide,  with vitamin D or with calcium salts may potentiate the rise in serum calcium . Concomitant use of thiazide type diuretics m ay lead to hypercalcaemia in patients pre -disposed for hypercalc aemia (e.g. hyperparathyroidism , malignancy or vitamin -D-mediated conditions) by increasing tubular calcium reabsorption.  
 Dual blockade of the RAAS with ARBs, ACE inhibitors or aliskiren  Clinical trial data have shown that dual blockade of the RAAS through the combined use of ACE inhibitors, ARBs  or aliskiren  is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS -acting agent (see sections  4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).  
 
