4.5 Interaction with  other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Concomitant administration with diuretics, antihypertensive agents, or other vasodilators 
 Concomitant administration of treprostinil with diuretics, antihypertensive agents or other vasodilators increases the risk of systemic hypotension. 
 Concomitant administration with platelet aggregation inhibitors , including NSAIDs and anticoagulants 
 Treprostinil may inhibit platelet function. Concomitant administration of treprostinil with plat elet aggregation inhibitors , including NSAIDs, nitric oxide donors or anticoagulants may increase the risk of bleeding. Surveillance of patients taking anticoagulants should be closely maintained. The concomitant use of other platelet inhibitors should be avoided in patients taking anticoagulants.  
 Concomitant administration with cytochrome P450 (CYP2C8) enzyme inducers/inhibitors 
 Gemfibrozil and other CYP2C8 inhibitors Pharmacokinetic studies in humans with oral treprostinil diolamine indicated that the c oncomitant administration of cytochrome P450 (CYP2C8) enzyme inhibitor gemfibrozil doubles the exposure (both Cmax and AUC) to treprostinil. In case a CYP2C8 inhibitor (e.g. gemfibrozil, trimethoprim and deferasirox) is added to or omitted from the patient ’s treatment after the titration phase, a dose adjustment of treprostinil has to be considered. 
 Rifampicin and other CYP2C8 inducers Pharmacokinetic studies in humans with oral treprostinil diolamine indicated that the concomitant administration of CYP2C8 enzyme inducer rifampicin resulted in a reduced (by about 20%) exposure to treprostinil. In case rifampicin is added to or omitted from the patient’s treatment after the titration phase, a dose adjustment of treprostinil has to be considered. 
 Also other CYP2C8 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital and St. John's Wort) may lead to reduced exposure to treprostinil. In case a CYP2C8 inhibitor is added to or omitted from the patient’s treatment after the titration phase, a dose adjustment of treprostinil has to be considered.  
 Concomitant administration with bosentan  In a pharmacokinetic study in humans, in which bosentan (250 mg /day) and treprostinil diolamine (oral dose of 2  mg/day) were administered concomitantly, no pharmacokinetic interac tion between treprostinil and bosentan was observed. 
 Concomitant administration with sildenafil  In a pharmacokinetic study in humans, in which sildenafil (60mg/day) and treprostinil diolamine (oral dose of 2 mg/day) were administered concomitantly, no pharmacokinetic interaction between treprostinil and sildenafil was observed.  
