4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effect of food on abiraterone acetate  Administration with food significantly increases the absorption of abiraterone acetate. The efficacy and safety when given with food have not been established  therefore this medicinal product must not be taken with food (see sections  4.2 and 5.2) . 
 Interactions with other medicinal products  Potential for other medicinal products to affect abiraterone exposures  In a clinical pharmacokinetic interaction study of healthy subjects pretreated with a strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin, 600  mg daily for 6  days followed by a single dose of abiraterone acetate 1000  mg, the mean plasma AUC ∞ of abiraterone acetate  was decreased by 55%.  
 Strong inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampicin, rifabutin, rifapentine, phenobarbital, St  John's  wort [ Hypericum perforatum ]) during treatment are to be avoided, unless there is no therapeutic alternative.  
 In a separate clinical pharmacokinetic interaction study of healthy subjects, co -administration of ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, had no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of abiraterone acetate . 
 Potential to affect exposures to other medicinal products  Abiraterone acetate   is an inhibitor of the hepatic medicinal product -metaboli sing enzymes CYP2D6 and CYP2C8.  In a study to determine the effects of abiraterone acetate (plus prednisone) on a single dose of the CYP2D6 substrate dextromethorphan, the systemic exposure (AUC) of dextromethorphan was increased approximately 2.9  fold. The AUC  24 for dextrorphan, the active metabolite of dextromethorphan, increased approximately 33%.  
 Caution is advised when administer ing with medicinal products activated by or metabolised by CYP2D6, particularly with medicinal products that have a narrow therapeutic index. Dose reduction of medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic index that are metabolised by CYP2D6 should be conside red. Examples of medicinal products metabolised by CYP2D6 include metoprolol, propranolol, desipramine, venlafaxine, haloperidol, risperidone, propafenone, flecainide, codeine, oxycodone and tramadol (the latter three medicinal products requiring CYP2D6 to form their active analgesic metabolites).  
 In a CYP2C8 medicinal product interaction study  in healthy subjects, the AUC of pioglitazone was increased by 46% and the AUCs for M -III and M -IV, the active metabolites of pioglitazone, each decreased by 10% when pioglitazone was given together with a single dose of 1000 mg abiraterone acetate.  Patients should be monitored for signs of toxicity related to a CYP2C8 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index if used concomitantly.  Examples of medicinal product s metaboli sed by CYP2C8 include pioglitazone and repaglinide (see section 4.4).  
 In vitro , the major metabolites abiraterone sulphate and N -oxide abiraterone sulphate were shown to inhibit the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and as a consequence it may increase the 7 concentrations of medicinal products eliminated by OATP1B1. There are no clinical data available to confirm transporter based interaction.  
 Use with products known to prolong QT interval  Since androgen deprivation treatment may prolong the QT interval, caution is advised when administering abiraterone acetate  with medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval or medicinal products able to induce torsade s de pointes such as class  IA (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide) or class  III (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide) antiarrhythmic medicinal products, methadone, moxifloxacin, antipsychotics, etc.  
 Use with spironolactone  Spironolactone binds to the androgen receptor and may increase prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels. Use with abiraterone acetate  is not recommended (see section  5.1). 
 
