4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and othe r forms of interaction  
 Phenobarbital  and primidone , which is par tially metab olized in phenobarbi tal, antagonise the effect of cholic acid. Use of phenobarbital  or primidone  in patients with 3β -Hydroxy -Δ
5-C27-steroid oxidoreductase deficie ncy or Δ4-3-Oxosteroid -5β-reductase deficiency treated with cholic acid is contraindicated  (see section 4.3) . Alternative treatments should be used.  
 Ciclosporin alters the pharmacokinetics of cholic acid by inhibition of the hepatic uptake and hepatobilia ry secretion of bile acids, as well as its pharmacodynamics by inhibition of cholesterol 
7α-hydroxylase. Co -administration should be avoided. If administration of ciclosporin is considered necessary, serum and urine bile acid levels should be closely monit ored and the cholic acid dose adjusted accordingly.  
 Bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine, colestipol, colesevelam) and certain antacids (e.g. aluminium hydroxide) bind bile acids and lead to their elimination. Administration of these medicinal products is expected to reduce the effect of cholic acid. The dose of bile acid sequestrants or antacids must be separated from the dose of cholic acid by an interval of 5  hours, regardless of which medicinal product is administered first.  
 Ursodeoxycholic acid  competitively inhibits absorption of other bile acids , including cholic acid,  and replaces them in the enterohepatic pool, reducing the effectiveness of negative feedback inhibition on bile acid synthesis pr ovided by oral cholic acid. For patients who are prescribed  a combination of ursodeoxycholic acid and cholic acid  in single doses , the administration of both medicinal products should be separated : one product should be given  in the morning a nd the other product should be given in the evening, regardless of which medicinal product is given first . For those patients,  who are prescribed a combination of ursodeoxycholic acid and cholic acid,  in divided doses of cholic acid and/or ursodeoxycholic acid over  the day, the administration of these medicinal products should be separated by several hours . 
 The effect of food on th e bioavailability of cholic acid has not been studied.  There is a theoretical possibility that a dministration with food may in crease cholic acid bioavailability and improve tolerability . 
 