4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Erythropoietic agents, or other agents that may increase the risk of thrombosis, such as hormone replacement therapy, should be used with caution in multiple myeloma patients receiving lenalidomide with dexamethasone (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
 Oral contraceptives  
 No interaction study has been performed with oral contraceptives. Lenalidomide is not an enzyme inducer. In an in vitro study with human hepatocytes, lenalidomide, at various concentrations tested did not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4/5. Therefore, induction leading to reduced efficacy of medicinal products, including hormonal contraceptives, is not expected if lenalidomide is administered alone. However, dexamethasone is known to be a weak to moderate inducer of CYP3A4 and is likely to also affect other enzymes as w ell as transporters. It may not be excluded that the efficacy of oral contraceptives may be reduced during treatment. Effective measures to avoid pregnancy must be taken (see sections 4.4 and 4.6).  
 Warfarin  
 Co-administration of multiple  10 mg  doses of lenalidomide had no effect on the single dose pharmacokinetics of R- and S- warfarin. Co-administration of a single 25 mg dose of warfarin had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lenalidomide. However, it is not known whether there is an interac tion during clinical use (concomitant treatment with dexamethasone). Dexamethasone is a weak to moderate enzyme inducer and its effect on warfarin is unknown. Close monitoring of warfarin concentration is advised during the treatment.  
 Digoxin 
 Concomitant administration with lenalidomide 10  mg once daily  increased the plasma exposure of digoxin (0.5 mg, single dose) by 14 % with a 90 % CI (confidence interval) [0.52  %-28.2 %]. It is not known whether the effect will be different in the clinical use (higher lenalidomide doses and concomitant treatment with dexamethasone). Therefore, monitoring of the digoxin concentration is advised during lenalidomide treatment.  Statins  
 There is an increased risk of rhabdomyolysis when statins are administered with  lenalidomide, which may be simply additive. Enhanced clinical and laboratory monitoring is warranted notably during the first weeks of treatment.  
 Dexamethasone  
 Co-administration of single or multiple doses of dexamethasone (40 mg  once daily ) has no clinically relevant effect on the multiple dose pharmacokinetics of lenalidomide (25 mg  once daily ). 
 Interactions with  P-glycoprotein (P- gp) inhibitors  
 In vitro , lenalidomide is a substrate of P-gp, but is not a P-gp inhibitor. Co- administration of multiple doses of the  strong P-gp inhibitor quinidine (600 mg, twice daily)  or the moderate P- gp inhibitor/substrate temsirolimus (25 mg) has no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of  26 lenalidomide (25 mg). Co -administration of lenalidomide does not alter the pharmacokinetics of temsirolimus.  
 
