4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Agents that may increase brigatinib plasma concentrations  
 CYP3A inhibitors 
 In vitro  studies demonstrated that brigatinib is a substrate of CYP3A4/5. In healthy subjects, coadministration of multiple 200  mg twice daily doses of itraconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with a single 90  mg brigatinib dose increased brigatinib C max by 21%, AUC 0-INF by 101% (2- fold), and AUC 0-120 by 82% (< 2-fold), relative to a 90 mg brigatinib dose administered alone. The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors with Alunbrig, including but not limited to certain antivirals (e.g., indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir), macrolide antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, telithromycin, troleandomycin), antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, voriconazole), and nefazodone should be avoided. If concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors cannot be avoided, the dose of Alunbrig should be reduced by approximately 50% (i.e. from 180 mg to 90 mg, or from 90 mg to 60 mg). After 10 discontinuation of a strong CYP3A inhibitor, Alunbrig should be resumed at the dose that was tolerated prior to the initiation of the strong CYP3A inhibitor.  
 Moderate CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., diltiazem and verapamil) may increase the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 40% based on simulations from a physiologically -based pharmacokinetic model. No dose adjustment is required for Alunbrig in combination with moderate CYP3A inhibitors. Patients should be closely monitored when Alunbrig is coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.  Grapefruit or grapefruit juice may also increase plasma concentrations of brigatinib and should be avoided (see section  4.2). 
 CYP2C8 inhibitors 
 In vitro  studies demonstrated that brigatinib is a substrate of CYP2C8. In healthy subjects, coadministration of multiple 60 0 mg twice daily doses of gemfibrozil, a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor, with a single 90 mg brigatinib dose reduced brigatinib C max by 41%, AUC 0-INF by 12%, and AUC 0-120 by 15%, relative to a 90 mg brigatinib dose administered alone. The effect of gemfibrozil on the pharmacokinetics of brigatinib is not clinically meaningful and the underlying mechanism for the decreased exposure of brigatinib is unknown. No dose adjustment is required during coadministration with strong CYP2C8 inhibitors. 
 P-gp and BCRP inhibitors 
 Brigatinib is a substrate of P -glycoprotein (P -gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) in vitro . Given that brigatinib exhibits high solubility and high permeability, inhibition of P -gp and BCRP is not expected to result in a clinically meaningful change in the systemic exposure of brigatinib. No dose adjustment is required for Alunbrig during coadministration with P- gp and BCRP inhibitors. 
 Agents that may decrease brigatinib plasma concentrations  
 CYP3A inducers 
 In healthy subjects, coadministration of multiple 600 mg daily doses of rifampicin, a strong CYP3A inducer, with a single 180 mg brigatinib dose decreased briga tinib C max by 60%, AUC 0-INF by 80% (5-fold), and AUC 0-120 by 80% (5- fold), relative to a 180 mg brigatinib dose administered alone. The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers with Alunbrig, including but not limited to rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoi n, rifabutin, phenobarbital, and St. John’s wort should be avoided.  
 Moderate CYP3A inducers may decrease the AUC of brigatinib by approximately 50% based on simulations from a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic model. The concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inducers with Alunbrig, including but not limited to efavirenz, modafinil, bosentan, etravirine, and nafcillin should be avoided. If concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inducers cannot be avoided, the dose of Alunbrig may be increased in 30  mg increments after 7 days of treatment with the current Alunbrig dose as tolerated, up to a maximum of twice the Alunbrig dose that was tolerated prior to the initiation of the moderate CYP3A inducer. After discontinuation of a moderate CYP3A inducer, Alunbrig should be resumed at the dose that was tolerated prior to the initiation of the moderate CYP3A inducer. 
 Agents that may have their plasma concentrations altered by brigatinib  
 CYP3A substrates  
 In vitro  studies in hepatocytes have shown that brigatinib is an in ducer of CYP3A4. In patients with cancer, coadministration of multiple 180  mg daily doses of Alunbrig with a single 3 mg oral dose of midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A substrate, decreased midazolam Cmax by 16%, AUC 0-INF by 26%, and AUC 0-last by 30%, relative to a 3 mg oral dose of midazolam administered alone. Brigatinib reduces plasma concentrations of coadministered medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by 11 CYP3A.  Therefore, coadministration of Alunbrig with CYP3A substrates with a narrow thera peutic index (e.g., alfentanil, fentanyl, quinidine, cyclosporine, sirolimus, tacrolimus) should be avoided as their effectiveness may be reduced.  
 Alunbrig may also induce other enzymes and transporters (e.g., CYP2C, P-gp) via the same mechanisms responsi ble for induction of CYP3A (e.g., pregnane X receptor activation). 
 Transporter substrates  
 Coadministration of brigatinib with substrates of P-gp (e.g., digoxin, dabigatran, colchicine, pravastatin), BCRP (e.g., methotrexate, rosuvastatin, sulfasalazine), organic cation transporter 
1 (OCT1), multidrug and toxin extrusion protein 1 (MATE1), and 2K (MATE2K) may increase their plasma concentrations. Patients should be closely monitored when Alunbrig is coadministered with substrates of these transporters with  a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., digoxin, dabigatran, methotrexate).  
 