4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 In a clinical study in healthy volunteers, 20 mg tafamidis meglumine did not induce or inhibit th e cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP3A4.  
 In vitro  tafamidis inhibits the efflux transporter BCRP (breast cancer resistant protein) with IC50=1.16  µM and may cause drug -drug interactions at clinically relevant concentrations with substrates of this transporter (e.g. methotrexate, rosuvastatin, imatinib).  In a clinical study in healthy participants, the exposure of the BCRP substrate rosuvastatin increased approximately 2 -fold following multiple doses of 61  mg tafamidis daily dosing.  
 Likewise, tafamidis inhibits the uptake transporters OAT1 and OAT3 (organic anion transporters) with IC50=2.9  µM and IC50=2.36  µM, respectively, and may cause drug -drug interactions at clinically relevant concentrations with substrates of these transporter s (e.g. non -steroidal anti -inflammatory 4 drugs, bumetanide, furosemide, lamivudine, methotrexate, oseltamivir, tenofovir, ganciclovir, adefovir, cidofovir, zidovudine, zalcitabine).  Based on in vitro  data, the maximal predicted changes in AUC of OAT1 and OA T3 substrates were determined to be less than 1.25 for the tafamidis meglumine 
20 mg dose, therefore, inhibition of OAT1 or OAT3 transporters by tafamidis is not expected to result in clinically significant interactions.  
 No interaction studies have been p erformed evaluating the effect of other medicinal products on tafamidis meglumine.  
 Laboratory test abnormality  
 Tafamidis may decrease serum concentrations of total thyroxine, without an accompanying change in free thyroxine (T4) or thyroid stimulating ho rmone (TSH). This observation in total thyroxine values may likely be the result of reduced thyroxine binding to or displacement from transthyretin (TTR) due to the high binding affinity tafamidis has to the TTR thyroxine receptor. No corresponding clinica l findings consistent with thyroid dysfunction have been observed.  
 
