4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Medicinal products with known risk of torsades de pointes  
 Caution should be exercised during concomitant administration of asciminib and medicinal products with known risk of torsades de pointes , including, but not limited to, bepridil, chloroquine, clarithromycin, halofantrine, haloperidol, methadone, moxifloxacin or pimozide (see section  5.1). 
 Medicinal product s that may decrease asciminib plasma concentrations  
 Strong CYP3A4 inducers  Co-administration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer (rifampicin)  decreased asciminib AUC inf by 15% and increased C max by 9%  in healthy subjects receiving a single asciminib  dose of 40  mg. 
 Caution should be exercised during c oncomitant administration of asciminib  with strong CYP3A 4 inducers, including , but not limited to , carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin  or St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum ), which  may result in lower efficacy  of asciminib . 
 Medicinal products that may have their plasma concentrations altered by asciminib  
 CYP3A4 substrates with narrow therapeutic index  Co-administration of asciminib with a CYP3A4 substrate (midazolam) increased midazolam AUC inf and C max by 28% and 11%, respectively, in healthy subjects receiving asciminib  40 mg twice daily.  
 Caution should be exercised during concomitant administration of asciminib  with CYP3A4 substrates known to have a narrow therapeutic index , including, but not limited to , the CYP3A4 substrates fentanyl, alfentanil, dihydroergotami ne or ergotamine (see section  5.2). Dose adjustment of asciminib  is not required.  
 6 CYP2C9 substrates  Co-administration of asciminib with a CYP2C9 substrate (warfarin) increased S -warfarin AUC inf and Cmax by 41% and 8%, respectively, in healthy subjects receiving asciminib  40 mg twice daily.  
 Caution should be exercised during concomitant administration of asciminib  with CYP2C9 substrates known to have a narrow therapeutic index , including, but not limited to , phenytoin or warfarin (see section  5.2). Dose adjustment of asciminib  is not required.  
 OATP1B, BCRP substrates or substrates of both transporters  Based on PBPK modelling, caution should be exercised during concomitant administration of asciminib with substrates of OATP1B, BCRP or both transporters, including, but not limited to sulfasalazine, methotrexate, pravastatin, atorvastatin, pitavastatin, ro suvastatin and simvastatin. No clinical drug interaction study was performed.  
 
