4.5 and 4.6).  Males of reproductive potential with a non -pregnant woman partner of childbearing potential should be advised to use highly effective contraception during treatment with VITRAKVI and for at least one month after the final dose (see section  4.6). 
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of other agents on larotrectinib  
 Effect of CYP3A, P -gp and BCRP inhibitors on larotrectinib  Larotrectinib is a substrate of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A, P -glycoprotein (P -gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP). Co -administration of VITRAKVI  with strong  or moderate  CYP3A inhibitors, P -gp and BCRP inhibitors (e.g. atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, troleandomycin, voriconazole or grapefruit) may increase larotrec tinib plasma concentrations  (see section  4.2). Clinical data in healthy adult subjects indicate that co -administration of a single 100  mg VITRAKVI  dose with itraconazole (a strong CYP3A inhibitor and P -gp and BCRP inhibitor) 200  mg once daily for 7 days increased larotrectinib C max and AUC by 2.8 -fold and 4.3 -fold, respectively . Clinical data in healthy  adult subjects indicate that co -administration of a single 100  mg VITRAKVI  dose with a single dose of 600  mg rifamp icin (a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor) increased larotrectinib C max and AUC by 1.8 -fold and 1.7 -fold, respectively.  
 Effect of  CYP3A  and P-gp inducer s on larotrectinib  Co-administration of VITRAKVI with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers and strong P-gp inducers (e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifabutin, rifamp icin, or St. John’s Wort) may decrease larotrectinib plasma concentrations  and should be avoided  (see section  4.4). Clinical data in healthy  adult subjects indicate that co -administration of a single 100  mg VITRAKVI  dose with rifamp icin (a strong CYP3A and P-gp inducer) 600  mg once daily for 11  days decreased larotrectinib C max and AUC by 71% and 81%, respectively.  No clinical data is available on the effect of a moderate inducer, but a decrease in larotrecti nib exposure is expected.  
 Effects of larotrectinib on other agents  
 Effect of larotrectinib on CYP3A substrates  Clinical data in healthy  adult subjects indicate that co -administration of VITRAKVI  (100 mg twice daily for 10  days) increased the C max and AUC of oral midazolam 1.7 -fold compared to midazolam alone, suggesting that larotrectinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A . Exercise caution with concomitant use of CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic range (e.g. alfentanil, c iclosporin, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus, or tacrolimus) in patients taking VITRAKVI . If concomitant use of these CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic range is required in patients taking VITRAKVI , dose reducti ons of the CYP3A substrates may be required due to adverse reactions.  
 Effect of larotrectinib on CYP 2B6 substrates  In vitro studies indicate that larotrectinib induces CYP2B6 . Co-administration of larotrectinib with CYP2B6 substrates (e.g. bupropion, efavirenz) may decrease their exposure . 
 Effect of larotrectinib on other transporter substrates  In vitro studies indicate that larotrectinib is an inhibitor of OATP1B1. No clinical studies have been performed to investigate interactions with OATP1B1 substr ates. Therefore, i t cannot be excluded whether co -administration of larotrectinib with OATP1B1 substrates (e.g. valsartan, statins) may increase their exposure.  
 7 Effect of larotrectinib on substrates of PXR regulated enzymes  In vitro studies indicate that larotrectinib is a weak inducer of PXR regulated enzymes (e.g. CYP2C family and UGT). Co -administration of larotrectinib with CYP2C8, CYP2C9 or CYP2C19 substrates (e.g. repaglinide, warfarin, tolbutamide or omeprazole) may decrease th eir exposure.  
 Hormonal contraceptives  It is currently unknown whether larotrectinib may reduce the effectiveness of systemically acting hormonal contraceptives. Therefore, women using systemically acting hormonal contraceptives should be advised to add a barrier method.  
 
