4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Substances metabolised by cytochrome P450  
 6 
 A screening  drug-drug interaction study was conducted in healthy volunteers (n=16) evaluating the concomitant administration of a single 1 200 mg dose of oritavancin with probe substrates for several CYP450 enzymes. Oritavancin was found to be a nonspecific, weak inhibitor (CYP2C9 and CYP2C19) or a weak inducer (CYP3A4 and CYP2D6) of several CYP isof orms.  
 Caution should be used when administering oritavancin concomitantly with medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic window that are predominantly metabolised  by one of the affected CYP450 enzymes (e.g., warfarin), as co -administration may increase (e.g., for CYP2C9 substrates) or decrease (e.g., for CYP2D6 substrates) concentrations of the narrow therapeutic range medicinal product. Patients should be closely monitored for signs of toxicity or lack of ef ficacy  if they have been given oritavancin  while on a potentially affected compound (e.g. patients should be monitored for bleeding, if concomitantly receiving oritavancin and warfarin) (see section  4.4). A study to assess the drug-drug interaction effect  of a single 1 200 mg dose of oritavancin on the pharmacokinetics of S- warfarin following a single dose was conducted in 36 healthy subjects. S- warfarin pharmacokinetics were evaluated following a single dose of warfarin 25 mg given alone, or administered a t the start, 24 or 72 hours after a single 1  200 mg dose of oritavancin. The results showed no effect of oritavancin on S-warfarin AUC and Cmax. 
 Drug -laboratory test interactions  (see sections 4.3 and 4.4)  
 Oritavancin  binds to and prevents the action of the phospholipid reagents which activate coagulation in commonly used laboratory coagulation tests. Oritavancin concentrations achieved in the blood after 
1 200 mg doses may produce falsely elevated results from certain  laboratory tests (see Table 2). 
 Table 2: Coagulation t ests a ffected by oritavancin Assay
 Duration of interference  Prothrombin time (PT)  Up to 12 hours  International normalized ratio (INR) Up to 12 hours Activated partial thromboplastin time (a 
 PTT)  Up to 120 hours  Activated clotting time (ACT)  Up to 24 hours Silica clot time (SCT)   Up to 18 hours Dilute Russell’s viper venom time (DRVVT)  Up to 72 hours 
 