4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Pharmacodynamic interactions 
 Clinical studies of olaparib in combination with other anticancer medicinal products, including DNA damaging agents, indicate a potentiation and prolongation of myelosuppressive toxicity. The recommended Lynparza monotherapy dose is not suitable for combination with myelosuppressive anticancer medicinal products.Combination of olaparib with vaccines or immunosuppressant agents has not been studied. Therefore, caution should be taken if these medicinal products are co -administered with Lynparza and patients should be closely monitored.Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 Effect of other medicinal products on olaparib 
 CYP3A4/5 are the isozymes predominantly responsible for the metabolic clearance of o laparib.A clinical study to evaluate the impact of itraconazole, a known CYP3A inhibitor, has shown that co-administration with olaparib increased mean olaparib C max by 42% (90% CI: 33 -52%) and mean AUC by 170% (90% CI: 144 -197%). Therefore, known strong (e.g. itraconazole, telithromycin, clarithromycin, protease inhibitors boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat, boceprevir, telaprevir) or moderate (e.g. erythromycin, diltiazem, fluconazole, verapamil) inhibitors of this isozyme are not recommended with Lyn parza (see section 4.4). If strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors must be co-administered, the dose of Lynparza should be reduced. The recommended Lynparza dose reduction is to 100 mg taken twice daily (equivalent to a total daily dose of 200 mg) with a stro ng CYP3A inhibitor or 150 mg taken twice daily (equivalent to a total daily dose of 300 mg) with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). It is also not recommended to consume grapefruit juice while on Lynparza therapy as it is a CYP3A inhibi tor.A clinical study to evaluate the impact of rifampicin, a known CYP3A inducer, has shown that co-administration with olaparib decreased olaparib mean C maxby 71% (90% CI: 76 -67%) and mean AUC by 87% (90% CI: 89 -84%). Ther efore, known strong inducers of this isozyme (e.g. phenytoin, rifampicin, rifapentine, carbamazepine, nevirapine, phenobarbital and St John’s Wort) are not recommended with Lynparza, as it is possible that the efficacy of Lynparza could be substantially reduced. The magnitude of the e ffect of moderate to strong inducers (e.g. efavirenz, rifabutin) on olaparib exposure is not established, therefore the co -administration of Lynparza with these medicinal products is also not recommended (see section 4.4).Effect of olaparib on other medi cinal products 
 Olaparib inhibits CYP3A4 in vitro and is predicted to be a mild CYP3A inhibitor in vivo . Therefore, caution should be exercised when sensitive CYP3A substrates or substrates with a narrow therapeutic margin (e.g. simvastatin, cisapride, cycl osporine, ergot alkaloids, fentanyl, pimozide, sirolimus, tacrolimus and quetiapine) are combined with olaparib. Appropriate clinical monitoring is recommended for patients receiving CYP3A substrates with a narrow therapeutic margin concomitantly with olap arib.Induction of CYP1A2, 2B6 and 3A4 has been shown in vitro with CYP2B6 being most likely to be induced to a clinically relevant extent. The potential for olaparib to induce CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and P-gp can also not be excluded. Therefore, olaparib upon co -administration may reduce the exposure to substrates of these metabolic enzymes and transport protein. The efficacy of some hormonal contraceptives may be reduced if co -administered with olaparib (see sections 4.4 and 4.6).10In vitro , olaparib inhibits th e efflux transporter P -gp (IC50=76 µM), therefore it cannot be excluded that olaparib may cause clinically relevant drug interactions with substrates of P -gp (e.g. simvastatin, pravastatin, dabigatran, digoxin and colchicine). Appropriate clinical monitori ng is recommended for patients receiving this type of medicinal product concomitantly.In vitro, olaparib has been shown to be an inhibitor of BCRP, OATP1B1, OCT1, OCT2, OAT3, MATE1 and MATE2K. It cannot be excluded that olaparib may increase the exposure to substrates of BCRP (e.g. methotrexate, rosuvastatin), OATP1B1 (e.g. bosentan, glibenclamide, repaglinide, statins and valsartan), OCT1 (e.g. metformin), OCT2 (e.g. serum creatinine), OAT3 (e.g. furosemide and methotrexate) , MATE1 (e.g. metfor min) and MATE2K (e.g. metformin) . In particular, caution should be exercised if olaparib is administered in combination with any statin. Combination with anastrozole, letrozole and tamoxifen 
 A clinical study has been performed to assess the combination of olaparib with anastrozole, letrozole or tamoxifen. No clinically relevant interaction swereobserved.
4.6Fertility, p regnancy and lactation 
 Women of childbearing potential/contraception in females 
 Women of childbearing potential should not become pregnant while on Lynparza and not be pregnant at the beginning of treatment. A pregnancy test should be performed on all women of childbearing potential prior to treatment and considered regularly throughout treatment . Women of childbearing potential must use two forms of reliable contraception before starting Lynparza therapy, during therapy and for 6mont hsafter receiving the last dose of Lynparza ,unless abstinence is the chosen method of contraception (see section 4.4). Two highly effective and complementary forms of contraception are recommended .Since it cannot be excluded that olaparib may redu ce exposure to substrates of CYP2C9 through enzyme induction, the efficacy of some hormonal contraceptives may be reduced if co -administered with olaparib. Therefore, an additional non -hormonal contraceptive method should be considered during treatment (se e section 4.5). For women with hormone dependent cancer, two non -hormonal contraceptive methods should be considered.Contraception in males It is not known whether olaparib or its metabolites are found in seminal fluid. Male patients must use a condom d uring therapy and for 3 months after receiving the last dose of Lynparza when having sexual intercourse with a pregnant woman or with a woman of childbearing potential. Female partners of male patients must also use highly effective contraception if they a re of childbearing potential (see section 4.4). Male patients should not donate sperm during therapy and for 3 months after receiving the last dose of Lynparza. Pregnancy 
 Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity including serious teratogenic e ffects and effects on embryofoetal survival in the rat at maternal systemic exposures lower than those in humans at therapeutic doses (see section 5.3). There are no data from the use of olaparib in pregnant women, however, based on the mode of action of o laparib, Lynparza should not be used during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using reliable contraception during therapy and for 6month safter receiving the last dose of Lynparza . (See previous paragraph: “Women of childbearing potential/contraception in females” for further information about birth control and pregnancy testing.