4.5 and 4.8). 
 Increased reporting rates of convulsions (with or without fever) and hypotonic hyporesponsive episode (HHE) were obse rved with concomitant administration of Infanrix hexa and Prevenar 13 (see section 
4.8). 
 Prophylactic administration of antipyretics  before or immediately after vaccine administration can reduce the incidence  and intensity of post -vaccination febrile  reactions. Clinical data generated with  paracetamol and ibuprofen suggest that the  prophylactic use of paracetamol might  reduce the fever rate, while prophylactic  use of ibuprofen showed a limited effect in  reducing fever rate.  The use of prophylactic antipyretic  medicinal products is recommended for  children with seizure disorders or with a  prior history of febrile seizures.  
 Antipyretic treatment should be initiated according to local treatment guidelines.  
 Special populations  
 HIV infection is not considered as a contraindication. The expected immunological response may not be obtained after vaccination of immunosuppressed patients.  
 Clinical data  indicate that Infanrix hexa  can be given to preterm infants, however, as expected in  this population, a lower immune response has  been observed for some antigens (see section 4.8 and section 
5.1). 
 The potential risk of apnoea and the need for respiratory monitoring for 48- 72h should be considered when administering the primary immunisation series to very pre term infants (born ≤ 28 weeks of gestation) and particularly for those with a previous history of respiratory immaturity.  As the benefit of the vaccination is high in these infants, vaccination should not be withheld or delayed.  
 Interference with laboratory testing  
 Since the Hib capsular polysaccharide antigen is excreted in the urine, a positive urine test can be observed within 1- 2 weeks following vaccination. Other tests should be performed in order to confirm Hib infection during this period.  
 Excipients  with known effect  
 Infanrix hexa contains para-aminobenzoic acid. It may cause allergic reactions (possibly delayed) , and exceptionally, bronchospasm.  The vaccine contains 0.0298 microgram  phenylalanine in each dose. Phenylalanine may be harmful if you ha ve phenylketonuria (PKU), a rare genetic disorder in which phenylalanine builds up because the body cannot remove it properly.  
 The vaccine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium -free’.  The vaccine contains potassium, less than 1 mmol (39 mg) per dose, i.e. essentially ‘potassium -free’.  
 Traceability  
 In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of the administered product should be clearly recorded.  
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 6 Infanrix hexa can be given concomitantly with pneumococcal conjugate vaccine s (PCV7, PCV10 and PCV13), meningococcal serogroup C conjugate vaccine (CRM 197 and TT conjugates), meningococcal serogroups A, C, W -135 and Y conjugate vaccine  (TT conjugate), meningococcal serogroup B vaccine (Men 
 B), oral rotavirus vaccine and measles- mumps -rubella -varicella (MMRV) vaccine.  
 Data have shown no clinically relevant interference in the antibody response to each of the individual antigens , although inconsistent antibody response to poliovirus type 2 in co- administration with Synflorix was observed (seroprotection ranging from 78% to 100%)  and the immune response rates to the PRP (Hib) antigen of Infanrix hexa after 2 doses given at 2 and 4 m onths of age were higher if co -administered with a tetanus toxoid conjugate pneumococcal or meningococcal vaccine (see section 5.1). The clinical relevance of th ese observation s remain s unknown.  
 When Infanrix hexa was co -administered with Men 
 B and pneumoc occal conjugate vaccines, inconsistent results were seen across studies for responses to inactivated poliovirus type 2, pneumococcal conjugate serotype 6B antigen and to the pertussis pertactin antigen  but these data do not suggest clinically significant interference.   
 Data from clinical studies indicate that, when Infanrix hexa is co -administered with pneumococcal conjugate vaccine s, the rate of febrile reactions is higher compared to that occurring following the administration of Infanrix hexa alone. Dat a from one clinical study indicate that when Infanrix hexa is co-administered with MMRV vaccine, the rate of febrile reactions is higher compared to that occurring following the administration of Infanrix hexa alone and similar to that occurring following the administration of MMRV vaccine alone (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The immune responses were unaffected.  
 Due to an increased risk of fever, pain at the injection site, appetite lost and irritability when Infanrix hexa  was co -administered with Men 
 B vacci ne and 7- valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, separate vaccinations can be considered when possible . 
 As with other vaccines it may be expected that in patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy, an adequate response may not be achieved.  
 