4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other form s of interaction  
 9 No formal medicinal product interaction studies have been performed. Clinically significant interactions between Herzuma and the concomitant medicinal products used in clinical trials have not been observed.  
 Effect of trastuzumab on the pharmacok inetics of other antineoplastic agents  
 Pharmacokinetic data from studies BO15935 and M77004 in women wit h HER2 -positive MBC suggested that exposure to paclitaxel and doxorubicin (and their major metabolites 6-α hydroxyl -paclitaxel, POH, and doxo rubicinol,  DOL) was not altered in the presence of trastuzumab (8 mg/kg or 4 mg/kg intravenous loading dose follow ed by 6 mg/kg q3w or 2 mg/kg q1w intravenous, respectively). However, trastuzumab may elevate the overall exposure of one doxorubicin metabol ite, (7-deoxy-13 dihydro-doxorubicinone, D7D). The bioactivity of D7D and the clinical impact of the elevation of t his metabolite was unclear.  
 Data from a single-arm study JP16003 of trastuzumab (4 mg/kg intravenous loading dose and 2  mg/kg intravenous w eekly) and docetaxel (60 mg/m
2 intravenous) in Japanese women with HER2 -positive MBC, suggested that concomitant a dministration of trastuzumab had no effect on the single dose pharmacokinetics of docetaxel. Study JP19959 was a substudy of BO18255 (To 
 GA) performed in male and female Japanese patients with advanced gastric cancer to study the pharmacokinetics of capecit abine and cisplatin when used with or without trastuzumab . The results of this substudy suggested that the exposure to the bioactive metaboli tes (e.g. 5 -FU) of capecitabine was not affected by concurrent use of cisplatin or by concurrent use of cisplatin plus trastuzumab . However, capecitabine itself showed higher concentrations and a longer half -life when combined with trastuzumab . The data al so suggested that the pharmacokinetics of cisplatin were not affected by concurrent use of capecitabine or by concu rrent use of capecitabine plus trastuzumab .  
 Pharmacokinetic data from Study H4613g/GO01305 in patients with metastatic or locally advanced inoperable HE R2-positive cancer suggested that trastuzumab had no impact on the PK of carboplatin.  
 Effect of anti neoplastic agents on trastuzumab pharmacokinetics  
 By comparison of simulated serum trastuzumab concentrations after trastuzumab monotherapy (4 mg/kg loading/2 mg/kg q1w intravenous) and observed serum concentrations in Japanese women with HER2 -positive MB C (study JP16003) no evidence of a PK effect of concurrent administration of docetaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab was found.  
 Com parison of PK  results from two Phase II studies (BO15935 and M77004) and one Phase III study (H0648g) in which pati ents were treated concomitantly with trastuzumab and paclitaxel and two Phase II studies in which trastuzumab  was administered as monotherapy  (W016229 and MO16982), in women with HER2 -positive MBC indicates that individual and mean trastuzumab trough serum  concentrations varied within and across studies but there was no clear effect of the concomitant administration of paclitaxel on the pharmac okinetics of trastuzumab. Comparison of trastuzumab PK data from Study M77004 in which women with HER2-positive MBC  were treated concomitantly with trastuzumab , paclitaxel and doxorubicin to trastuzumab PK data in studies where t rastuzumab was administered  as monothera py (H0649g) or in combination with anthracycline plus cyclophosphamide or paclitaxel (Study H0648g), s uggested no effect of doxorubicin and paclitaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab.  
 Pharmacokinetic data from Study H4613g/GO01305 suggested that carboplatin had no impact on the PK of trastuzumab.  
 The administration of concomitant anastrozole did n ot appear to influence the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab.  
 
