4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Effect of other medicinal products  on the pharmacokinetics of cabotegravir  
 Cabotegravir is primarily metabolised by uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase ( UGT ) 1A1 and to a lesser extent by  UGT1A9. Medicinal products which are strong inducers of UGT1A1 or UGT1A9 are expected to decrease cabotegravir plasma concentrations leading to lack of efficacy (see section 4.3 and T able 3 below ).  In poor metaboli sers of UGT1A1, representing a maximum clinical UGT1A1 inhibition, the mean AUC, Cmax and C tau of oral cabotegravir increased by up t o 1.5- fold. No dosing adjustments for Apretude  are recommended in the presence of UGT1A1 inhibitors.  
 Cabotegravir is a substrate of P-glycoprotein ( P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ), however, because of its high permeability, no alteration in absorption is expected when co-administered with either P -gp or BCRP inhibitors.  
 Effect of cabotegravir on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products  
 In vivo , cabotegravir did not have an effect on midazolam, a cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 3A4 probe. In vitro , cabotegravir did not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, or CYP3A4.  
 7 In vitro  cabotegravir inhibited organic anion transporters (OAT) 1 (IC 50=0.81 µM) and OAT3 (IC 50=0.41 µM). T herefore , caution is advised when co -dosing with narrow therapeutic index OAT1/3 substrate medicinal products  (e.g. methotrexate).  
 Based on the in vitro and clinical drug interaction profile, cabotegravir is not expected to alter concentrations of other anti -retroviral medic inal products including protease inhibitors, nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, non -nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, integrase inhibitors, entry inhibitors, and ibalizumab.  
 No drug interac tion studies have been performed with cabotegravir injection. The drug interaction data provided in Table 3 is obtained from studies with oral cabotegravir  (increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔ ”, area under the concentration versus time curve as “AUC”, maximum observed concentration as “C max”, concentration at end of dosing interval as “Cτ”) . 
 Table 3Drug interactions  
 Medicinal products by therapeutic areas  Interaction  Geometric mean change (%)  Recommendations concerning co-administration  HIV-1 Antiviral medicinal products  Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor:  Etravirine  Cabotegravir ↔ AUC ↑  1% Cmax ↑ 4% Cτ ↔ 0% 
 Etravirine did not significantly change cabotegravir plasma concentration. No dose adjustment of Apretude  is necessary when initiating injections following etravirine use.  Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor:  Rilpivirine  Cabotegravir ↔ AUC ↑ 12%  Cmax ↑ 5% Cτ ↑ 14%  Rilpivirine ↔  AUC ↓ 1% Cmax ↓ 4% Cτ ↓ 8% Rilpivirine did not significantly change cabotegravir plasma concentration or vice versa. No dose adjustment of Apretude  or rilpivirine is necessary when co -administered.  Anticonvulsants  Carbamazepine  Oxcarbazepine  Phenytoin  Phenobarbital  Cabotegravir ↓ Metabolic inducers may significantly decrease cabotegravir plasma concentration. Concomitant use is contraindicated  (see section 4.3) . Antimycobacterials  Rifampicin  
 
 Cabotegravir ↓ AUC ↓  59%  Cmax ↓ 6% Rifampicin significantly decreased cabotegravir plasma concentration which is likely to result in loss of therapeutic effect. Dosing recommendations for co -administration of Apretude  with rifampicin have not been established and co- administration of Apretu de with rifampicin is contraindicated (see section 4.3) . 
 Rifapentine  Cabotegravir ↓ Rifapentine may significantly decrease cabotegravir plasma concentrations. Concomitant use is contraindicated  (see section 4.3) . Rifabutin  
 Cabotegravir ↓ AUC ↓  21%  Cmax ↓ 17%  Cτ ↓ 26% When rifabutin is started before or concomitantly with the first cabotegravir initiation injection the recommended cabotegravir dosing schedule is one 
600 mg injection followed 2 weeks later by a 8 second 600 mg initiation injection and monthly, thereafter, while on rifabutin.   When rifabutin is started at the time of the second initiation injection or later, the recommended dosing schedule is 600 mg, monthly, while on rifabutin.  After stopping rifabutin, the recommended cabotegravir dosing schedule is 600 m g every 2 months.  Oral contraceptives  Ethinyl estradiol (EE) and Levonorgestrel (LNG)  EE ↔ AUC ↑  2% Cmax ↓ 8% Cτ ↔ 0% 
 LNG ↔  AUC ↑  12%  Cmax ↑ 5% Cτ ↑ 7% Cabotegravir did not significantly change ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel plasma concentrations to a clinically relevant extent. No dose adjustment of oral contraceptives is necessary when co -administered with Apretude . 
 Paediatric population  Interaction studies have only been performed in adults . 
 
