4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Anti-neoplastic, immunosuppressive or corticosteroid therapies  
 Tecfidera has not been studied in combination with anti -neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies and caution should, therefore, be used during concomitant administration. In multiple sclerosis clinical studies, the concomitant treatment of relapses with a  short course of intravenous corticosteroids was not associated with a clinically relevant increase of infection.  
 Vaccines  
 Concomitant administration of non -live vaccines according to national vaccination schedules may be considered during Tecfidera therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71 patients with RRMS, patients on Tecfidera 240  mg twice daily for at least 6  months (n=38) or non -pegylated interferon for at least 3  months (n=33), mounted a comparable immune response (defined as ≥  2-fold increase from pre- to post -vaccination titre) to tetanus toxoid (recall antigen) and a conjugated meningococcal  C polysacchari de vaccine (neoantigen), while the immune response to different serotypes of an unconjugated 23 -valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (T -cell independent antigen) varied in both treatment groups. A positive immune response defined as a ≥  4-fold increase in antibody titre to the three vaccines, was achieved by fewer subjects in both treatment groups. Small numerical differences in the response to tetanus toxoid and pneumococcal serotype  3 polysaccharide were noted in favour of non -pegylated interferon.  
 No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated vaccines in patients taking Tecfidera. Live vaccines might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should not be given to patients treated with Tecfidera unless, in exce ptional cases, this potential risk is considered to be outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vaccinating.  
 Other fumaric acid derivatives  
 During treatment with Tecfidera, simultaneous use of other fumaric acid derivatives (topical or systemic) should be avoided.  
 In humans, dimethyl fumarate is extensively metabolised by esterases before it reaches the systemic circulation and further metabolism occurs through the tricarboxylic acid cycle, with no involvement of the cytochrome  P450 (CYP) system. Potential interaction risks were not identified from in vitro  CYP -inhibition and induction studies, a p -glycoprotein study, or studies of the protein binding of dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate (the primary metabolite of dimethyl fumarate).  
  Effects of other substances on dimethyl fumarate  
 Commonly used medicinal products in patients with multiple sclerosis, intramuscular interferon beta-1a and glatiramer acetate, were clinically tested for potential interactions with dimethyl fumarate and did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate.  
 Evidence from healthy volunteer studies suggests that Tecfidera -associated flushing is likely to be prostaglandin mediated. In two healthy volunteer studies, the administration of 325  mg (or equivalent) non-enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid, 30  minutes prior to Tecfidera, dosing over 4  days and over 43 4 weeks, respectively, did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of Tecfidera. Potential risks associated with acetylsalicylic acid therapy should be considered prior to co -administration with Tecfidera in patients with RRMS. Long term (>  4 weeks) continuous use of acetylsalicylic acid has not been studied (see sections  4.4 and  4.8).  
 Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, diuretics, non -steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs or lithium) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions (e.g. proteinuria see section  4.8) in patients taking Tecfidera (see section  4.4 Blood/laboratory tests).  
 Consumption of moderate amounts of alcohol did not alter exposure to dimethyl fumarate and was not associated with an increase in adverse reactions. Consumption of large amounts of strong alcoholic drinks (more than 30% alcohol by volume) should be avoided  within an hour of taking Tecfidera, as alcohol may lead to increased frequency of gastrointestinal adverse reactions.  
 Effects of dimethyl fumarate on other substances  
 In vitro  CYP induction studies did not demonstrate an interaction between Tecfidera and oral contraceptives. In an in vivo  study, co -administration of Tecfidera with a combined oral contraceptive (norgestimate and ethinyl oestradiol) did not elicit any relevant change in oral contraceptive exposure. No interaction studies have been performed with oral contraceptives containin g other progestogens, however an effect of Tecfidera on their exposure is not expected.  
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
