4.5 Interacti on w ith other medicinal products and other forms of intera ction 
 Ef f ects of other medicinal products on sitagliptin 
 Clinical data described be low suggest that the risk f or clinically meaningf ul interactions byco-administered medicinal products is low.In vitro studies  indicated that the primary enzyme responsib le f or the limited metabolism of sitag liptinis CYP3A4, with contribution f rom
 CYP2C 8. In patients with normal renal f unction, metabolism,including via CYP3A4, plays only a small role in
 the cleara nce of sitagliptin. Metabolism may play amore signi f icant  role in the  elimination of  sitagliptin in the setting of  severe renal impairm ent orend-stage renal disease
 (ESRD). For this reason, it is possible that potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (i.e.ketoconazole,
 itraconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin) could alter the pharmacokinetics of  sitagliptin inpatients with severe renal impairment
 or ES RD. Th e ef f ect of  potent CYP3A4 inhibitors in the settingof renal impairment
 has not been assessed in a clinical study.In vitro transport studies showed that sitagliptin
 is a substrate f o r p-glycoprotein and organ ic aniontransporter -3 (OAT3). OAT3 mediated t ransport of  sitagliptin was inhibited in vitro  by prob enecid,although the risk of  clinically meaningf ul interacti ons is considered to be low. Concomitantadministrat ion of  OAT3 inhibitors has not been evaluated in vivo .Metformin:  Co-administration
 of  mu ltiple twice -daily doses of  1
,000 mg metf ormin with 50
 mgsitagliptin did not meaningf ully alter the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin in patients with type 2diabetes.Ciclosporin:  A study was conducted to assess the ef f ect of  ciclosporin , a potent i nhibit or ofp-glycoprotein, on the pharmacokinetics of  sitagliptin. Co -administration of  a single 100
 mg oral  doseof  sitagliptin and a single 600
 mg oral dose of  ciclospor in increased the A UC and C max of  sitagliptin
 byapproximately 29
 % and 68  %, respect ively.  These changes in sitagliptin pharmacokinetics were notconsidered to be clinically meaningf ul. The ren al clearanc e of sitagliptin was not meaningf ully altered.There f ore, meaningf ul interactions would not be expected with other p-glycoprotein
 inhibi tors.Ef f ects of sitagliptin on other medicinal products 
 Digoxin:  Sitagliptin had a small ef f ect on plasma digoxin concentrations. Following administration of
0.25 mg digo xin co ncomitantly with 100  mg of  sitagliptin
 daily f or 10
 days, the plasma AUC ofdigoxin was increased on average by 11
 
%, and the plasma Cmax on average by 18
 
%. No doseadjustment of  digoxin
 is recommended . However, patients at risk of digoxin toxicity should  bemonitored f or this when sitagliptin and digoxin are administered concomitantly.In vitro  data suggest that sitagliptin does not inhibit nor induce CYP450 isoenzymes. In clinicalstudies, sitagl iptin did not meaningf ully alter the pharmacokinetics of  m etf ormin, gl yburide,simvastatin, rosiglitazone, warf arin, or oral contraceptives, p roviding in vivo  evidence of  a lowpropensity f or causing interactions with substrates of  CYP3A4, CYP2C
8, CYP2C9, and organiccationic transporter (OCT).
 Sitagliptin may be  a mild inhibitor of  p -glycoprotein in vivo.6