4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No studies have been performed  to evaluate drug-drug interactions between Apealea and other medicinal products . 
 The metabolism of paclitaxel is catalysed, in part, by cytochrome P45 0 isoenzymes CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 (see section  5.2). Therefore, caution should be exercised when administering paclitaxel concomitantly with medicin al products  known to inhibit either CYP2C8 or CYP3A4  (e.g. ketoconazole and other imidazole antifungals, erythr omycin, fluoxetine, gemfibrozil, clopidogrel, cimetidine, ritonavir, saquinavir, indinavir, and nelfinavir) because toxicity of paclitaxel may be increased due to higher paclitaxel exposure . Administering paclitaxel concomitantly with medicin al products  known to induce either CYP2C8 or CYP3A4 (e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, efavirenz, nevirapine) is not recommended because efficacy may be compromised because of lower paclitaxel exposures.  
 Apealea contains a mixture of two retinoic acid derivati ves as excipients. In vitro  studies using human microsomes have shown these derivatives to have inhibitory activity on CYP2B6, CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , and to a lesser extent on CYP2D6 . In the absence of in vivo studies addressing inhibition of CYP2B6 and CYP2C9, the concomitant use of Apealea and substances metabolised primarily by these CYP enzymes should be exercised with caution.  
 Apealea is indicated to be used in combination with carboplatin (see section  4.1). Apealea should be administered first, then carboplatin. Based on literature data, no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction between paclitaxel and carboplatin is expected.  
 Clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction has been observed betw een paclitaxel and cisplatin. When paclitaxel is given before cisplatin, the safety profile of solvent -based paclitaxel is consistent with that reported for single -agent u se. When solvent -based paclitaxel was given after cisplatin, patients showed a more p rofound myelosuppression and an approximately 20% decrease in paclitaxel Medicinal product no longer authorised7 clearance. A similar effect can be anticipated for Apealea (paclitaxel micellar). Patients treated with paclitaxel and cisplatin may have an increased risk of renal failure as compare d to cisplatin alone in gynaecological  cancers.  
 
