4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 The following medicinal product  interactions have been reported for medicinal products containing methylthioninium chloride.  
 Serotonergic medicinal products  
 Serious central nervous system ( CNS ) reactions have been recorded  when methylthioninium chloride was administered via intravenous route to patients taking certain psychiatric medicinal products (see section  4.4). Reported cases occurred in patients taking specific serotonergic psychiatric medicinal products , namely a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI),  monoaminooxidase inhibitors  or clomipramine. It is not known if there is a risk of seroton in syndrome when methylthioninium chloride is administered orally in preparation for colonoscopy.   In clinical studies maximal systemic exposure to m ethylthioninium chloride (maximum plasma concentration [C max]) was lower fo r orally administered m ethylthioninium chloride than for intravenous  administered methylthioninium chloride , suggesting a lower risk of systemic effects such as serotonin syndrome occurring with oral m ethylthioninium chloride than for intravenous administe red m ethylthioninium chloride.  
 Agents metaboli sed by c ytochrome P450 e nzymes  
 There is limited clinical information regarding the concomitant use of m ethylthioninium chloride with medicinal products  that are metaboli sed by CYP isoenzymes. In vitro  studies indicated that methylthioninium chloride inhibits a range of CYP isozymes in vitro , including 1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 
2C19, 2D6, and 3A4/5. These interactions could have a clinical relevance with narrow therapeutic index medicinal products  that are metaboli sed by one of these enzymes (e.g., warfarin, phenytoin, alfentanil, cyclosporine, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus, and tacrolimus).  
 Lumeblue  may be  coadministered with anaesthetics / analgesi cs and/or sedative  / anxiolytic medicinal products , often used during colonoscopy which are cleared through hepatic CYPs reactions such as: midazolam, propofol, diazepam, diphenhydramine, promethazine, meperidine, and fentanyl.  The 5 clinical consequences of  changes in plasma concentrations of co -administered medicinal products  which are substrates of these metabolic enzymes and transporters are not known but cannot be excluded.   
 Methylthioninium chloride induces CYP isozymes 1A2 and 2B6 in human hepatocytes culture, whereas it does not induce 3A4 at nominal concentrations up to 40  μM. However, these interactions are not expected to have any clinical relevance for the Lumeblue  single dose application.  
 Transporter interactions 
 There is limited clinical information regarding the concomitant use of Lumeblue  with medicinal products  that are inhibitors of P-gp and OAT3. Based on in vitro studies, methylthioninium chloride was found to be a possible substrate of the membrane transport proteins P -gp, OCT2, MATE1 and MATE2 -K and OAT3 and medicinal products  which are inhibitors of these transporters have the potential to decrease excretion efficiency of methylthioninium chloride. Methylthio ninium chloride is known to be a potent inhibitor of the transporters OCT2, MATE1 and MATE2-K. The clinical consequences of the inhibition are not known. The administration of Lumeblue  has the potential to transiently increase the exposure of medicinal products primarily cleared by renal transport involving the OCT2/MATE pathway, including cimetidine, metformin and acyclovir.  However, the clinical impact of these in vitro  interactions is expected to be minimal due to the short period of adminis tration of Lumeblue  (approximately 3 hours).  
 
