4.5 Interaction with other medici nal products and other forms o f interaction 
 Effects of other medicinal products on sildenafil 
 In vitro studies Sildenafil metabolism is princip ally mediated by the cytochrome  P450 (CYP) isoforms 3A4 (major route) and 2C9 (minor route). T herefore, inhibitors of these is oenzymes may reduce sildenafil clearance and inducers of these isoenzymes may increase sildena fil clearance. 
 In vivo studies  Population pharmacokinetic anal ysis of clinical study data indi cated a reduction in sildenafil clearance when co-administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as ketoconazo le, erythromycin, cimetidine). Although no increased incidence of adverse events was observed in these patients, when sildenafil is administered concomitantly with CYP3A4 inhibitors, a starting d ose of 25 mg should be considered. 
 Co-administration of the HIV protease inhibitor ritonavir, whic h is a  highly potent P450 inhibitor, at steady state (500 mg twice daily) with sildenafil (100 mg singl e dose) resulted in a 300% (4-fold) increase in sildenafil Cmax and a 1 000% (11-fold) increase in sildenafil plasma AUC. At 2 4 hours, the plasma levels of sildenafil were  still approximately 200 ng/m 
 L,  compared to approximately 5 ng/m 
 L when sildenafil was administered alone. This is consistent with  ritonavir’s marked effects on a broad range of P450 substrates. Sildenafil had no effect on ritonavir  pharmacokinetics. Based on these pharmacokinetic results co-administration of sildenafil with ri tonavir is not advised (see section 4.4) and in any event the maximum dose of sildenafil should under no  circumstances exceed 25 mg within 
48 hours. 
 Co-administration of the HIV p rotease inhibitor saquinavir, a C YP3A4 inhibitor, at steady state (1 200 mg three times a day) with sildenafil (100 mg single dos e) resulted in a 140% increase in sildenafil C max and a 210% increase in sildenaf il AUC. Sildenafil had no effec t on saquinavir pharmacokinetics (see section 4.2). Stronger CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole and itraconazole would be expected to have greater effects.  
 When a single 100 mg dose of sild enafil was administered with e rythromycin, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, at steady state (500 mg twice daily. for 5 days), th ere was a 182% increase in sildenafil systemic exposure (AUC). In norma l healthy male volunteers, the re was no evidence of an effect of azithromycin (500 mg daily for 3 days) on the AUC, Cmax, tmax, elimination rate constant, or subsequent half-life of sildenaf il or its principal circulating  metabolite. Cimetidine (800 mg), a cytochrome P450 inhibitor and non-specific CYP3A4 inhibitor, ca used a 56% increase in plasma sildenafil concentrations when co-administered with sildenafil (50 mg) to healthy volunteers. 
 Grapefruit juice is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4 gut wall metabol ism and may give rise to modest increases in plasma levels of sildenafil. 
 Single doses of antacid (magnesium  hydroxide/aluminium hydroxid e) did not affect the bioavailability of sildenafil.  Although specific interaction studies were not conducted for al l medicinal products, population pharmacokinetic analysis showed no effect of concomitant treatm ent on sildenafil pharmacokinetics when grouped as CYP2C9 inhibitors (such as tolbutamide, warfari n, phenytoin), CYP2D6 inhibitors (such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, tricyclic ant idepressants), thiazide and related diuretics, loop and potassium s paring diuretics, angiotensin co nverting enzyme inhibitors, calcium channel blockers, beta-adrenoreceptor antagonists or inducers o f CYP450 metabolism (such as rifampicin, barbiturates). In a study of healthy male volunteer s, co-administration of the endothelin antagonist, bosentan, (an inducer o f CYP3A4 [moderate], CYP2C9 and possibly of CYP2C19) at steady state (125 mg twice a day) with sildenafil at steady sta te (80 mg three times a day) resulted in 
62.6% and 55.4% decrease in sildenafil AUC and Cmax, respectively. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, is expected to cause greater decreases in plasma concentrations of sildenafil.  
7 
  Nicorandil is a hybrid of potassi um channel activator and nitra te. Due to the nitrate component it has the potential to result in a serious interaction with sildenafi l. 
 Effects of sildenafil on other medicinal products 
 In vitro studies Sildenafil is a weak inhibitor of  the cytochrome P450 isoforms 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4 (IC
50 > 150 μM). Given sildenafil peak p lasma concentrations of appro ximately 1 μM after recommended doses, it is unlikel y that VIAGRA will alter the cl earance of substrates of these isoenzymes.  There are no data on the inter action of sildenafil and non-spec ific phosphodiesterase inhibitors such as theophylline or dipyridamole. 
 In vivo studies Consistent with its known effect s on the nitric oxide/c 
 GMP path way (see section 5.1), sildenafil was shown to potentiate the hypoten sive effects of nitrates, and it s co-administration with nitric oxide donors or nitrates in any form is therefore contraindicated (se e section 4.3). 
 Riociguat: Preclinical studies showed additive systemic blood p ressure lowering effect when PDE5 inhibitors were combined with riociguat. In clinical studies, r iociguat has been shown to augment the hypotensive effects of PDE5 inhibitors. There was no evidence o f favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied. Concomitant use of rioci guat with PDE5 inhibitors, including sildenafil, is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
 Concomitant administration of s ildenafil to patients taking alp ha-blocker therapy may lead to symptomatic hypotension in a few susceptible individuals. This is most likely to occur within 4 hours post sildenafil dosing (see secti ons 4.2 and 4.4). In three spe cific drug-drug interaction studies, the alpha-blocker doxazosin (4 mg and 8 mg) and sildenafil (25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg) were administered simultaneously to patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (B PH) stabilized on doxazosin therapy. In these study populations, mean add itional reductions of supine b lood pressure of 7/7 mm 
 Hg, 
9/5 mm 
 Hg, and 8/4 mm 
 Hg, and mean  additional reductions of stand ing blood pressure of 6/6 mm 
 Hg, 
11/4 mm 
 Hg, and 4/5 mm 
 Hg, respectively, were observed. When sild enafil and doxazosin were administered simultaneously to patients stabilized on doxazosin  therapy, there were infrequent reports of patients who experienced sym ptomatic postural hypotension. T hese reports included dizziness and light-headedness, but not syncope.   No significant interactions were shown when sildenafil (50 mg) was co-administered with tolbutamide (250 mg) or warfarin (40 mg), bot h of which are metabolised by CYP2C9. 
 Sildenafil (50 mg) did not poten tiate the increase in bleeding time caused by acetyl salicylic acid (150 mg).  Sildenafil (50 mg) did not potentiate the hypotensive effects o f alcohol in healthy volunteers with mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 80 mg/d 
 L. 
 Pooling of the following classes of antihypertensive medicinal products: diuretics, beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II anta gonists, antihypertensive medici nal products (vasodilator and centrally-acting), adrenergic neurone blockers, calcium channel  blockers and alpha-adrenoceptor blockers, showed no difference in  the side effect profile in pa tients taking sildenafil compared to placebo treatment. In a specific interaction study, where silde nafil (100 mg) was co-administered with amlodipine in hypertensive patie nts, there was an additional re duction on supine systolic blood pressure of 8 mm 
 Hg. The corres ponding additional reduction in s upine diastolic blood pressure was 
7 mm 
 Hg. These additional blood pr essure reductions were of a si milar magnitude to those seen when sildenafil was administered al one to healthy volunteers (see se ction 5.1). 
  
8 
 Sildenafil (100 mg) did not aff ect the steady state pharmacokin etics of the HIV protease inhibitors, saquinavir and ritonavir, both of  which are CYP3A4 substrates. 
 In healthy male volunteers, sildenafil at steady state (80 mg t hree times a day) resulted in a 49.8% increase in bosentan AUC and a 42% increase in bosentan C max (125 mg twice a day). 
 Addition of a single dose of s ildenafil to sacubitril/valsartan  at steady state in patients with hypertension was associated with  a significantly greater blood pressure reduction compared to administration of sacubitril/valsartan alone. Therefore, cautio n should be exercised when sildenafil is initiated in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan.  