4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 The amount of alcohol in this medicinal product may alter the effects of other medicinal products.  
 In vitro studies have shown that the metabolism of docetaxel may be modified by the concomitant administration of compounds which induce, inhibit or are metabolised by (and thus may inhibit the enzyme competitively) cytochrome P450 -3A such as ciclosporine,  ketoconazole, erythromycin. As a result, caution should be exercised when treating patients with these medicinal products as concomitant therapy since there is a potential for a significant interaction.  
 In case of combination with CYP3A4 inhibitors, the occurrence of docetaxel adverse reactions may increase, as a result of reduced metabolism. If the concomitant use of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin and voriconazole) cannot be avoided, a close clinical surveillance is warranted and a dose-adjustment of docetaxel may be suitable during the treatment with the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (see section 4.4). In a pharmacokinetic study with 7 patients, the co -administration of docetaxel with the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole leads to a  significant decrease in docetaxel clearance by 
49%.  
 Docetaxel pharmacokinetics in the presence of prednisone w as studied in patients with metastatic prostate cancer. Docetaxel is metabolised by CYP3A4 and prednisone is known to induce CYP3A4. No statistically significant effect of prednisone on the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel was observed.  
 Docetaxel is highly p rotein bound (> 95%). Although the possible in vivo interaction of docetaxel with concomitantly administered medicinal product has not been investigated formally, in vitro interactions with tightly protein -bound agents such as erythromycin, diphenhydramine , propranolol, propafenone, phenytoin, salicylate, sulfamethoxazole and sodium valproate did not affect protein binding of docetaxel. In addition, dexamethasone did not affect protein binding of docetaxel. Docetaxel did not influence the binding of digitox in. 
 The pharmacokinetics of docetaxel, doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide were not influenced by their co-administration. Limited data from a single uncontrolled study were suggestive of an interaction between docetaxel and carboplatin. When combined to doc etaxel, the clearance of carboplatin was about 50% higher than values previously reported for carboplatin monotherapy.  
 
