4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 The saf ety of deferasirox  in co mbination w ith other  iron chela tors has not  been estab lished. Therefore, i t must not be co mbined wi th other  iron chela tor the rapies (see section  4.3).  
 Interaction w ith food  
 The Cmax of de ferasirox  film-coated t ablets was incr eased  (by 29%)  when taken wi th a h igh-fat meal. Deferasirox fil m-coated t ablets may be taken either on an e mpty stomach or w ith a light meal, preferably at the sa me time each day  (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
 Agents that may decrease deferasirox  systemic exposu re 
 Deferasirox metabolism depends on U GT enzymes. In a hea lthy volunteer s tudy, the concom itant administration of  deferasirox  (single dose of  30 m g/kg, dispers ible tablet formulation) and t he potent UGT  inducer, rifa mpicin, (repea ted dose of  600 mg/day) resulted i n a dec rease of def erasirox exposure by 44% (90% CI: 37% - 51%). T herefore, t he conco mitant use of deferasirox w ith potent UGT inducers (e.g. rifa mpicin, carba mazepine, phen ytoin, phenobarbita l, ritona vir) m ay result  in a decrease in deferasirox efficacy . The patien t’s ser um ferritin shou ld be monitored d uring and after  the co mbination, and the dose of  deferasirox adjusted if necessar y. 
 Cholest yramine si gnificantly  reduced the defer asirox exposure in a mechan istic study to de termine the de gree of en terohepatic recycling (see section  5.2).  
 Interaction w ith midazolam  and ot her agents metabolised by CYP3A4 
 In a hea lthy volunteer s tudy, the conco mitant administration of  deferasirox dispers ible tablets and midazolam  (a CYP3A4 probe subs trate) resulted i n a decr ease of m idazolam  exposure by 17% (90% 12 CI: 8% - 26%). I n the clinical  settin g, this effect  may be m ore p ronounced. T herefore, due to a possible dec rease in ef ficacy , caution shoul d be exe rcised w hen defe rasirox is co mbined wi th substances m etabolised throug h CYP3A4 (e.g. ciclospo rin, simvastatin, hor monal cont raceptive agents, bepridil, e rgotamine). 
 Interaction w ith repa glinide and other  agents metabolised by CYP2C8 
 In a hea lthy volunteer s tudy, the conco mitant administration of de ferasirox as a m oderate CYP2C8 inhibitor (30 m g/kg daily, dispers ible tablet formulation), w ith repa glinide, a C YP2C8 substra te, given as a si ngle dose of  0.5 mg, increased repag linide A UC and C max about  2.3-fold (90% C I [2.03- 2.63]) and 1.6- fold (90% CI [1.42- 1.84]), respecti vely. Since the interaction has not been  estab lished w ith doses hi gher than 0.5 m g for repa glinide, t he conco mitant use of deferasirox w ith repa glinide should be a voided. I f the co mbination appea rs necessa ry, care ful clinical and bl ood g lucose monitoring  shoul d be perfor med (see section  4.4). A n inte raction between defe rasirox and other  CYP2C8 substra tes like pac litaxel cannot  be excl uded.  
 Interaction w ith theophy lline and other  agents metabolised by CYP1A2 
 In a hea lthy volunteer s tudy, the conco mitant administration of  deferasirox  as a C YP1A2 inhibitor (repeat ed dose of 30 mg/kg/da y, dispers ible tablet formulation) and t he CYP1A2 substra te theophy lline ( single dose of  120 mg) resulted i n an i ncrease of theoph ylline A UC by 84% (90% C I: 
73% to 95%). T he sin gle dose C max was not  affected, but  an increase of theophy lline C max is expected to occur with ch ronic dosing . Therefore, t he concom itant use of  deferasirox  with theophy lline i s not reco mmended. I f deferasirox  and t heophy lline are used conco mitantly, monitoring  of theophy lline concen tration and theophy lline dose r eduction shoul d be cons idered. An interaction be tween de ferasirox and ot her CYP1A2 substra tes cannot  be exc luded. For substances that are predominant ly metabolised by  CYP1A2 and that have a na rrow therapeutic i ndex ( e.g. clozapine, tizanidine), the sa me recommendations apply as for theophy lline.  
 Other infor mation 
 The conco mitant administration of deferasirox  and alu minium-containing antacid prepara tions has not been for mally studied. Al though deferasirox has a l ower affinity  for aluminium  than f or iron, it  is not recommended to ta ke deferasirox  tablets with aluminium-containing antacid prepara tions.  
 The conco mitant administration of de ferasirox w ith substances that  have known ulcero genic potential, such as N SAIDs (including  acetylsalic ylic ac id at high dosage), corticoster oids or  oral bisphosphona tes may increase the risk of gastrointestinal  toxic ity (see section  4.4). T he conco mitant administration of de ferasirox w ith an ticoagulants may also increase the risk of gastrointestinal haemorrha ge. Close clinical  monitoring is required when defe rasirox is co mbined wi th these substances.  
 Concomitant administration of deferasirox and busulfan resulted in an increase of busulfan exposure (AUC), but the mechanism of the interaction remains unclear. If possible, evaluation of the pharmacokinetics (AUC, clearance) of a busulfan tes t dose should be performed to allow dose adjustment.  
 
