4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Pharmacodynamic interactions 
 Diuretics 
 Empagliflozin may add to the diuretic effect of thiazide and loop diuretics and may increa se the risk of dehydration and hypotension (see section 4.4) .Insulin and insulin secretagogues 
 Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulphonylureas, may increase the risk of hypoglycaemia. Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or an insulin secretagogue may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia when used in combination with empagliflozin (see sections 4.2 and 4.8).Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 Effects of other medicinal products on empagliflozin 
 In vitro data suggest that the primary route of metabolism of empagliflozin in humans is glucuronidation by uridine 5' -diphosphoglucuronosyltransferases UGT1A3, UGT1A8, UGT1A9 , and UGT2B7 . Empagliflozin is a substrate of the human uptake transporters OAT3, OATP1B1, and OATP1B3, but not OAT1 and OCT2. Empagliflozin is a substrate of P -glycoprotein (P -gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP).Co-administration of empagliflozin with p robenecid, an inhibitor of UGT enzymes and OAT3, resulted in a 26% increase in peak empagliflozin plasma concentrations (C max) and a 53% increase in area under the concentration -time curve (AUC). These changes were not considered to be clinically meaningfu l. The effect of UGT induction (e.g. induction by rifampicin or phenytoin) on empagliflozin has not been studied. Co-treatment with known inducers of UGT enzymes is not recommended due to a potential risk of decreased efficacy. If an inducer of these UGT enzymes must be co -administered, monitoring of glycaemic control to assess response to Jardiance is appropriate.An interaction study with gemfibrozil, an in vitro inhibitor of OAT3 and OATP1B1/1B3 transporters, showed that empagliflozin C maxincreased b y 15% and AUC increased by 59% following co -admini stration. These changes were not considered to be clinically meaningful.Inhibition of OATP1B1/1B3 transporters by co -administration with rifampicin resulted in a 75% increase in C maxand a 35% increase in AUC of empagliflozin. These changes were not considered to be clinically meani ngful.Empagliflozin exposure was similar with and without co -administration with verapamil, a P -gp inhibitor, indicating that inhibition of P -gp does not have any clinically relevant effect on empagliflozin.Interaction studies suggest that the pharmacokinetics of empagliflozin were not influenced by co -administration with metformin, glimepiride, pioglitazone, sitagliptin, linagliptin, warfarin, verapamil , ramipril, simvastatin, torasemide and hydrochlor othiazide.Effects of empagliflozin on other medicinal products 
 Empagliflozin may increase renal lithium excretion and the blood lithium levels may be decreased. Serum concentration of lithium should be mo nitored more frequently after empagliflozin initiation and dose changes. Please refer the patient to the lithium prescribing doctor in order to monitor serum concentration of lithium.Based on in vitro studies, empagliflozin does not inhibit, inactivate, or induce CYP450 isoforms. Empagliflozin does not inhibit UGT1A1 , UGT1A3, UGT1A8, UGT1A9, or UGT2B7 . Drug -drug 8interactions involving the major CYP450 and UGT isoforms with empagliflozin and concomitant ly administered substrates of these enzymes are therefore considered unlikely.Empagliflozin does not inhibit P -gp at therapeutic doses. Based on in vitro studies, empagliflozin is considered unlikely to cause interactions with active substances that are P-gp substrates. Co -administration of digoxin, a P -gp substrate, with empagliflozin resulted in a 6% increase in AUC and 
14% increase in C maxof digoxin. These changes were not considered to be clinically meaningful.Empagliflozin does not inhibit human u ptake transporters such as OAT3, OATP1B1, and OATP1B3 in vitro at clinically relevant plasma concentrations and, as such, drug -drug interactions with substrates of these uptake transporters are considered unlikely.Interaction studies conducted in healthy volunteers suggest that empagliflozin had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin, glimepiride, pioglitazone, sitagliptin, linagliptin, simvastatin, warfarin, ram ipril, digoxin, diuretics and oral contraceptives.Paediatric population Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
