4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 In vitro,  liraglutide has shown very low potential to be involved in pharmacokinetic interactions with other active substances related to cytochrome P450 and plasma protein binding.  
 The small delay of gastric emptying wit h liraglutide may influence absorption of concomitantly administered oral medicinal products. Interaction studies did not show any clinically relevant delay of absorption and therefore no dose adjustment is  required . Few patients treated with liraglutide r eported at least one episode of severe diarrhoea. Diarrhoea may affect the absorption of concomitant oral medicinal products.  
 Warfarin and other coumarin derivatives  
 No interaction study has been performed. A clinically relevant interaction with active substances with poor solubility or with narrow therapeutic index such as warfarin cannot be excluded. Upon initiation of liraglutide  treatment in patients on warfarin or  other coumarin derivatives , more frequent monitoring of INR (International Normalised Ratio) is recommended.  
 Paracetamol  
 Liraglutide did not change the overall exposure of paracetamol following a single dose of 1000 mg. Paracetamol Cmax was decreased by  31% and median t max was delayed up to 15  min. No dose adjustment for concomitant use of paracetamol is required. 
 Atorvastatin  
 Liraglutide did not change the overall exposure of atorvastatin to a clinical ly relevant degree following single dose administration of atorvastatin 40 mg. Therefore, no dose adjustment of atorvastatin is required when given with liraglutide. Atorvastatin C max was decreased by 38% and median t max was delayed from 1 h to 3  h with liraglutide.  
  5 Griseo fulvin  
 Liraglutide did not change the overall exposure of griseofulvin following administration of a single dose of griseofulvin 500 mg. Griseofulvin C max increased by 37% while median t max did not change. Dose adjustments of griseofulvin and other compounds with low solubility and high permeability are not required.  
 Digoxin  
 A single dose administration of digoxin 1 mg with liraglutide resulted in a reduction of digoxin AUC by 16%;  Cmax decreased by 31%. Digoxin median t max was delayed from 1  h to 1.5 h.  No adjustment of digoxin dose is required based on these results.  
 Lisinopril  
 A single dose administration of lisinopril 20 mg with liraglutide resulted in a reduction of lisinopril AUC by 15%; Cmax decreased by 27%. Lisinopril median t max was delayed from 6  h to 8 h with liraglutide. No dose adjustment of lisinopril is required based on these results. 
 Oral contraceptives 
 Liraglutide lowered ethinyloestradiol and levonorgestrel C max by 12 and 13%, respectively, following administration of a single dose of an oral contraceptive product. T max was delayed by 1.5  h with liraglutide for both compounds. There was no clinically relevant effect on the overall exposure of either ethinyloestradiol or levonorgestrel. The contraceptive effect is therefore anticipated to be unaffected when co -administered with liraglutide.  
 Insulin  
 No pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed between liraglutide and insulin detemir when administering a single dose of insulin detemir 0.5 U/kg with liraglutide 1.8  mg at steady state in patients with type 2 diabetes.  
 Paediatric Population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 