4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interactions resulting in a contraindication  
 ACE inhibitors  The concomitant use of sacubitril/valsartan  with ACE inhibitors is contraindicated, as the concomitant inhibition of neprilysin (NEP) and ACE may increase the risk of angioedema. Sacubitril/valsartan  must not be started until 36  hours after taking the last dose of ACE inhibitor therapy. ACE inhibitor therapy must not be started until 36  hours after the last dose of sacubitril/valsartan  (see sections  4.2 and 4.3).  
 8 Aliskiren  The concomitant  use of sacubitril/valsartan  with aliskiren -containing medicinal products is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or in patients with renal impairment (e 
 GFR 
<60 ml/min/1.73  m2) (see section  4.3). The combination of sacubitril/valsartan  with direct renin inhibitors  such as aliskiren is not recommended (see section  4.4). Combination of sacubitril/valsartan  with aliskiren is potentially associated with a higher frequency of adverse reactions  such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) (see sections  4.3 and 4.4).  
 Interactions resulting in concomitant use not being recommended  
 Sacubitril/valsartan  contains valsartan, and therefore should not be co -administered with another ARB containing medicinal product (see section  4.4). 
 Interactions requiring precautions  
 OAT P1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates, e.g. s tatins  In vitro  data indicate that sacubitril inhibits OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 transporters. Neparvis  may therefore increase the systemic exposure of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates such as statins. Co-administration of sacubitril/valsartan  increased the C max of atorvastatin and its metabolites by up to 
2-fold and AUC by up to 1.3 -fold. Caution should be exercised when co -administering sacubitril/valsartan  with statins.  No clinically relevant interaction was observed when simvastatin and Neparvis were co -administered.  
 PDE5 inhibitors including sildenafil  Addition of a single dose of sildenafil to sacubitril/valsartan  at steady state in patients with hypertension was associated with a significantly greater blood pressure reduction compared to administration of sacubitril/valsartan  alone. Therefore, caution should be exercised when sildenafil or another PDE5 inhibitor is  initiated in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan . 
 Potassium  Concomitant use of potassium -sparing diuretics (triamterene, amiloride), mineralocorticoid antagonists (e.g. spironolactone, eplerenone), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other agents (such as heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium, and to inc reases in serum creatinine. Monitoring of serum potassium is recommended if sacubitril/valsartan  is co-administered with these agents (see section  4.4). 
 Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory agents (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase -2 (COX -2) inhibitors  In elderly patients, volume -depleted patients (including those on diuretic therapy), or patients with compromised renal function, concomitant use of sacubitril/valsartan  and NSAIDs may lead to an increased risk of worsening of renal function. Therefore, monitoring of renal function is recommended when initiating or modifying treatment in patients on sacubitril/valsartan  who are taking NSAIDs concomitantly (see section  4.4). 
 Lithium  Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists  including sacubitril/valsartan . Therefore, this combination is not recommended. If the combination proves necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. If a diuretic is also used, the risk of lithium toxicity may be increased further.  
 9 Furosemide  Co-administration of sacubitril/valsartan  and furosemide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of sacubitril/valsartan  but reduced C max and AUC of furosemide by 50% and 28%, respectively. While there was no relevant change in urine volume, the urinary excretion of sodium was reduced within 
4 hours and 24  hours after co -administration. The average daily dose of furosemide was unchanged from baseline until the end of the PARADIGM -HF study in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan . 
 Nitrates, e.g. n itroglycerine  There was no interaction  between sacubitril/valsartan  and intravenously administered nitroglycerin with regard to blood pressure reduction. Co -administration of nitroglycerin and sacubitril/valsartan  was associated with a treatment difference of 5  bpm in heart rate compared to the administration of nitroglycerine alone.  A similar effect on the heart rate may occur when sacubitril/valsartan  is co-administered with sublingual, oral or transdermal nitrates. In general no dose adjustment is required.  
 OATP  and M RP2 transporters  The active metabolite of sacubitril (LBQ657) and valsartan are OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1 and OAT3 substrates; valsartan is also a MRP2 substrate. Therefore, co -administration of sacubitril/valsartan  with inhibitors of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT3 (e.g. rifampicin, ciclosporin), OAT1 (e.g. tenofovir, cidofovir ) or M RP2 (e.g. ritonavir) may increase the systemic exposure of LBQ657 or valsartan. Appropriate care should be exercised when initiating or ending concomitant treatment with such medicinal products.  
 Metformin  Co-administration of sacubitril/valsartan  with metformin reduced both C max and AUC of metformin by 
23%. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. Therefore, when initiating therapy with sacubitril/valsartan  in patients receiving metformin, the clinical status of the patient should be evaluated.  
 No significant interaction  
 No clinically meaningful interaction was observed when sacubitril/valsartan  was co -administered with digoxin, warfarin, hydrochlorothiazide, amlodipine, omeprazole, carvedilol or a combination of levonorgestrel/ethinyl estradiol.  
 
