4.5 Interaction with ot her medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 No drug interaction studies have been conducted using Dovato. Dovato  contains dolutegravir and lamivudine, therefore any interactions identified for these individually are relevant to Dovato . No clinically significant drug interactions are expected between dolutegravir and lamivudine.  
 Effect of o ther medicinal products  on the p harmacokinetics of dolutegravir  and lamivudine  
 Dolutegravir is eliminated mainly through metabolism by uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl  transferase (UGT) 1A1. Dolutegravir is also a substrate of UGT1A3, UGT1A9, CYP3A4, P -glycoprotein (P -gp), and breast cancer resistance protein  (BCRP). Co -administration of Dovato  and other medicinal products  that inhibit UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A9, CYP3A4, and/or P -gp may, therefore, increase dolutegravir plasma concentration. Medicinal products  that induce those enzymes or transporters may decrease dolutegravir plasma concentration and reduce the therapeutic eff ect of dolutegravir . 
 The absorption of dolutegravir is reduced by certain metal cation -containing anti -acid substance s and supplements  (see Table 1).  
 Lamivudine is cleared renally. Active renal secretion of lamivudine in the urine is mediated through the  OCT2 and multidrug and toxin extrusion transporters (MATE1 and MATE2- K). Trimethoprim (an inhibitor of these transporters) has been shown to increase lamivudine plasma concentrations, however the resulting increase was not clinically significant (see Tabl e 1). Dolutegravir is an OCT2 and MATE1 inhibitor; however, lamivudine concentrations were similar with or without co- administration of dolutegravir based on a cross study analysis, indicating that dolutegravir has no relevant effect on lamivudine exposure  in vivo . Lamivudine is also substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter  OCT1. As hepatic elimination plays a minor role in the clearance of lamivudine, drug interactions due to inhibition of OCT1 are unlikely to be of clinical significance.  
 Although lamivudine is a substrate of BCRP and P -gp in vitro , given its high absolute bioavailability, (see section 5.2), inhibitors of these efflux transporters are unlikely to result in a clinically relevant impact on lamivudine concentrations.  
 Effect o f dolutegravir and lamivudine  on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products  
 In vivo , dolutegravir did not have an effect on midazolam, a CYP3A4 probe. Based on in vivo  and/or  in vitro  data, dolutegravir is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of medicinal products that are  substrates of any major enzyme or transporter such as CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and P -gp (for more  information see section 5.2).  
 In vitro , dolutegravir inhibited the re nal transporters OCT2 and MATE1. In vivo , a 10- 14% decrease of creatinine clearance (secretory fraction is dependent on OCT2 and MATE1 transport) was observed in patients. In vivo , dolutegravir may increase plasma concentrations of medicinal products in wh ich excretion is dependent upon OCT2 and/or MATE1 (e.g. fampridine [ also known as dalfampridine] , metformin) (see Table 1 and section 4.3).  
 In vitro , dolutegravir inhibited the renal uptake organic anion transporters (OAT)1 and OAT3. Based on the lack of effect on the in vivo  pharmacokinetics of the OAT substrate tenofovir, in vivo  inhibition of OAT1 is unlikely. Inhibition of OAT3 has not been studied in vivo . Dolutegravir may increase plasma concentrations of medic inal products in which excretion is depe ndent upon OAT3.  
 In vitro,  lamivudine wa s an inhibitor of OCT1 and OCT2; the clinical consequences are not known.  
 Established and theoretical interactions with selected antiretrovirals and non -antiretroviral me dicinal products are listed in T able 1.  
 7 Interaction table  
 Interactions between dolutegravir, lamivudine and co- administered medical products are listed in Table 1 (increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “ ↔”, area under the concentration versus time curve as “AUC”, maximum observed concentration as “C max”, concentration at end of dosing interval as 
“Cτ”). The table should not be considered exhaustive but is representative of the classes studied.  
 Table 1:  Drug Interactions  
 Medicinal products by therapeutic areas  Interaction geometric mean change (%)  Recommendations concerning co -administration  Antiretroviral medicinal products  Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors  Etravirine without boosted protease inhibitors / Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  71%  
   C max ↓ 52%  
   Cτ ↓ 88%  
 Etravirine ↔  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  Etravirine without boosted protease inhibitors decreased plasma dolutegravir concentration. The recommended dose of dolutegravir is 50 mg twice dail y for patients taking etravirine without boosted protease inhibitors. As Dovato is a fixed -dose tablet, an additional 
50 mg tablet of dolutegravir should be administered, a pproximately 12 hours after Dovato  for the duration of the etravirine without booste d protease inhibitor co- administrati on (a separate formulation of dolutegravir  is available for this dose adjustment, see section 
4.2).  Lopinavir+ritonavir+etravirine/ Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑  11%  
   C max ↑ 7% 
   Cτ ↑ 28%  
 Lopinavir ↔  Ritonavir ↔  Etravirine ↔ No dose adjustment is necessary.  Darunavir+ritonavir+etravirine/ Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  25%  
   C max ↓ 12%  
   Cτ ↓ 36%  
 Darunavir ↔ Ritonavir ↔  Etravirine ↔ No dose adjustment is necessary.  Efavirenz/Dolu tegravir  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  57%  
   C max ↓ 39%  
   Cτ ↓ 75%  
 Efavirenz ↔  (historical controls)  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  The recommended dose of dolutegravir is 50 mg twice daily when co-administered with efavirenz. As Dovato is a fixed -dose tablet, an additional 50 mg tablet of dolutegravir should be administered, a pproximately 
12 hours after Dovato for the duration of the efavirenz co-administration (a separate formulation of dolutegravi r is available for this dose adjustment, see section 4.2) .  8 Nevirapine/Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↓ (Not studied, a similar reduction in exposure as observed with efavirenz is expected, due to induction)  The recommended dose of dolutegravir is 50 mg twice daily when co-administered with nevirapine. As Dovato is a fixed -dose tablet, an additional 50 mg tablet of dolutegravir should be administered, a pproximately 
12 hours after Dovato for the duration of the nevirapine  co-administrati on (a separate form ulation of dolutegravir  is available for this dose adjustment, see section 4.2) .  Rilpivirine /Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑  12%  
   C max ↑ 13%  
   Cτ ↑ 22%  Rilpivirine ↔ No dose adjustment is necessary.  Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)  Tenofovir disoproxil   
 
 
 
 
 
 Emtricitabine, didanosine, stavudine, t enofovir alafenamide , zidovudine  Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑  1% 
   C max ↓ 3% 
   Cτ ↓ 8% Tenofovir ↔  
 
 Interaction not studied  
 No dose adjustment is necessary when Dovato is combined with tenofovir , didanosine, stavudine or zidovudine . 
 Dovato is not recommended for use in combination with emtricitabine containing products, since both lamivudine (in Dovato) and emtricitabine are cytidine analogues (i.e. risk for intracellular interactions ), see section 4.4 . Protease inhibitors  Atazanavir/Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↑ 
   AUC ↑  91%  
   C max ↑ 50%  
   Cτ ↑ 180%  
 Atazanavir ↔  (historical controls)  (inhibition of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  No dose adjustment is necessary.  Atazanavir+ ritonavir/ Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↑ 
   AUC ↑  62%  
   C max ↑ 34%  
   Cτ ↑ 121%  
 Atazanavir ↔  Ritonavir ↔ No dose adjustment is necessary.  Tipranavir+ritonavir/ Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  59%  
   C max ↓ 47%  
   Cτ ↓ 76%  
 Tipranavir ↔ Ritonavir ↔  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  The recommended dose of  dolutegravir is 50 mg twice daily when co administered with tipranavir/ritonavir. As Dovato  is a fixed -dose tablet, an additional 50 mg tablet of dolutegravir should be administered, a pproximately 12 hours after Dovato  for the duration of the tipranavir/ritonavir  co-administrati on (a separate formulation of dolutegravir  is 9 available for this dos e adjustment, see section 4.2) .  Fosamprenavir+ritonavir/ Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  35%  
   C max ↓ 24%  
   Cτ ↓ 49%  
 Fosamprenavir ↔ Ritonavir ↔  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  Fosamprenavir /ritonavir decreases dolutegravir concentrations, but based on limited data, did not result in decreased efficacy in Phase III studies. No dose adjustment is necessary.  Lopinavir+ritonavir/ Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↓  4% 
   C max ↔ 0% 
   C 24 ↓ 6% 
 Lopinavir ↔  Ritonavir ↔ No dose adjustment is necessary.  Darunavir+ritonavir/ Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  22%  
   C max ↓ 11%  
   Cτ ↓ 38%  
 Darunavir ↔ Ritonavir ↔  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  No dose adjustment is necessary.  Other antiviral active substances  Daclatasvir/Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑  33%  
   C max ↑ 29%  
   Cτ ↑ 45%  Daclatasvir ↔ Daclatasvir did not change dolutegravir plasma concentration to a clinically relevant extent. Dolutegravir did not change daclatasvir plasma concentration. No dose adjustment is necessary.  Ledipasvir/Sofosbuvir / Lamivudine (with abacavir)  Lamivudine  ↔ Ledipasvir ↔ Sofosbuvir ↔ No dosage adjustment necessary.  Sofosbuvir/  Velpatasvir/ Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↔ Sofosbuvir ↔  Velpatasvir ↔ No dosage adjustment necessary.  Ribavirin  Interaction not studied.  
 Clinically significant interaction unlikely.  No dosage adjustment necessary.  Anti -infective products  10 Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole  (Co-trimoxazole)/Lamivudine  (160 mg/800 mg once daily for 
5 days/300 mg single dose)  Lamivudine:  
   AUC ↑  43%  
   C max ↑ 7% 
 Trimethoprim:  
   AUC ↔  
 Sulfamethoxazole:  
   AUC ↔  
 (organic cation transporter inhibition)  No dosage adjustment necessary.  Antimycobacterials  Rifampicin/Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  54%  
   C max ↓ 43%  
   Cτ ↓ 72%  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  The recommended dose of dolutegravir is 50 mg twice daily when co-administered with rifampicin. As Dovato is a fixed- dose tablet, an additional 50 mg tablet of dolutegravir should be administered, a pproximately 
12 hours after Dovato for the duration of the rifampicin  co-administrati on (a separate formulation of dolutegravir  is available for this dose ad justment, see section 4.2) .  Rifabutin /Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↓  5% 
   C max ↑ 16%  
   Cτ ↓ 30%  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  No dose adjustment is necessary.  Anticonvulsants  Carbamazepine/Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  49%  
   C max ↓ 33%  
   Cτ ↓ 73%  
 The recommended dose of dolutegravir is 50 mg twice daily when co-administered with these metabolic inducers. As Dovato is a fixed- dose tablet, an additional 50 mg tablet of dolutegravir should be administered, approximately 12 hours after Dovato for the duration of the co- administrati on with these metabolic inducers (a separate formulation of dolutegravir  is available for this dose adjustment, see section 4.2).  Phenobarbital/Dolutegravir  Phenytoin/Dolutegravir  Oxcarbazepine/Dol utegravir  
 Dolutegravir ↓ (Not studied, decrease expected due to induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes, a similar reduction in exposure as observed with carbamazepine is expected ). Antihistamines (histamine H2 receptor antagonists)  Ranitidine  Interaction not studied.  
 Clinically significant interaction unlikely.  No dosage adjustment necessary.  Cimetidine  Interaction not studied.  
 Clinically significant interaction unlikely.  No dosage adjustment necessary.  Cytotoxics  11 Cladribine/Lamivudine  Interaction not studied.  
 In vitro  lamivudine inhibits the intracellular phosphorylation of cladribine leading to a potential risk of cladribine loss of efficacy in case of combination in the clinical setting. Some clinical findings also support a possible interaction between lamivudine an d cladribine . Concomitant use of Dovato with cladribine is not recommended (see section 4.4).  Miscellaneous  Sorbitol  Sorbitol solution (3.2  g, 10.2  g, 
13.4 g)/Lamivudine  Single dose lamivudine oral solution 300 mg .  Lamivudine:  AUC ↓  14%; 32%; 36%  Cmax ↓ 28%; 52%, 55%.  When possible, avoid chronic coadministration of Dovato with medicinal products containing sorbitol or other osmotic acting poly- alcohols or monosaccharide alcohols (eg: xylitol, mannitol, lactitol, maltitol). Consider more frequent monitoring of HIV -1 viral load when chronic coadministration cannot be avoided.  Potassium channel blockers  Fampridine  (also known as dalfampridine )/Dolutegravir  Fampridine ↑ 
 Co-administration of dolutegravir has the potential to cause seizures due to increased fampridine plasma concentration via inhibition of OCT2 transporter; co -administration has not been studied. Fampridine co-administration with Dovato  is contraindicated  (see section 4. 3).  Antacids and supplements  Magnesium/  aluminium- containing antacids/Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↓ AUC ↓  74%  Cmax ↓ 72%  
 (Complex binding to polyvalent ions)  Magnesium/ aluminium -containing antacids should be taken well separated in time from the administration of Dovato (minimum 2  hours after or 
6 hours before).  Calcium supplements/Dolutegravir  (fasted intake)  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  39%  
   C max ↓ 37%  
   C 24 ↓ 39%  (Complex binding to polyvalent ions)  - When taken with food , Dovato  and supplements or multivitamins containing calcium, iron or magnesium can be taken  at the same time.   
- If Dovato is taken in a fasted state , such supplements should be taken a minimum 2  hours after or 6  hours before  the intake of Dovato.  
 The stated reductions in dolutegravir exposure were observed with the intake of dolutegravir and these supplements Iron supplements/Dolutegravir  (fasted intake)  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  54%  
   C max ↓ 57%  
   C 24 ↓ 56%  (Complex binding to polyvalent ions ) 12 Multivitamins  (containing calcium, iron and magnesium) 
/Dolutegravir  (fasted intake)  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  33%  
   C max ↓ 35%  
   C 24 ↓ 32%  (Complex binding to polyvalent ions)  during fasted conditions. In fed state, the changes in exposure following intake together with calcium or iron supplements were modified by t he food effect, resulting in an exposure similar to that obtained with dolutegravir administered in the fasted state.  Proton pump inhibitors  Omeprazole  Dolutegravir ↔ No dosage adjustment necessary.  Corticosteroids  Prednisone /Dolutegravir  Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑  11%  
   C max ↑ 6% 
   Cτ ↑ 17%  No dose adjustment is necessary.  Antidiabetics  Metformin/Dolutegravir  Metformin ↑ Dolutegravir ↔  When co -administered with dolutegravir 50 mg QD: Metformin  
   AUC ↑  79%  
   C max ↑ 66%  When co -administered with dolutegravir 50  mg BID:  
   Metformin  
   AUC ↑  145 %  
   Cmax ↑ 111%  A dose adjustment of metformin should be considered when starting and stopping coadministration of Dovato with metformin, to maintain glycaemic control. In patients with moderate renal impairment a dose adjustment of metformin should be considered when coadministered with Dovato , because of the increased risk for lactic acidosis in patients with moderate renal impairment due to increased metformin concentration (section 4.4).  Herbal products    St. John’s wort/Dolutegravir  
 Dolutegravir  ↓ (Not studied, decrease expected due to induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes, a similar reduction in exposure as observed with carbamazepine is expected) . The recommended dose of dolutegravir is 50 mg twice daily when co-administered with St. John’s wort. As Dovato is a fixed- dose tablet, an additional 50 mg tablet of dolutegravir should be administered, a pproximately 
12 hours after Dovato for the duration of the St. John’s wort  co-administrati on (a separate formulation of dolutegravir  is available for this dose adjustment, see section 4.2) .  Oral contraceptives  Ethinyl estradiol (EE) and Norgestromin (NGMN)/Dolutegravir  Effect of dolutegravir:  EE ↔  
   AUC ↑  3%  
   C max ↓ 1% 
 Effect of dolutegravir:  NGMN ↔  
   AUC ↓  2%  
   Cmax ↓ 11% Dolutegravir had no pharmacodynamic effect on Luteinizing Hormone (LH), Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) and progesterone. No dose adjustment of oral contraceptives is necessary when co-administered with Dovato. 
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  13  
