4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Since Ig 
 E  may be involved in the immunological response to some helminth infections,  omalizumab may indirectly reduce the efficacy of medicinal products for the treatment of helminthic or other parasitic infections  (see section  4.4). 
 Cytochrome P450 enzymes, efflux pumps and protein -binding mechanisms are not involved in the clearance of omalizumab; thus, there is little potential for interactions. Medicinal product or vaccine interaction studies have not been performed with omalizumab . There is no pharmacological reason to expect that commonly prescribed medicinal products used in the treatment of asthma  or CRSw 
 NP  will interact with omalizumab.  
 9 Allergic asthma  
 In clinical studies omalizumab was commonly used in conjunction with inhaled and oral corticosteroids, inhaled short -acting and long -acting beta agonists, leukotriene modifiers, theophyllines and oral antihistamines. There was no indication that the safety of omalizumab was altered with these other commonly used anti-asthma medicinal products . Limited data are available on the use of omalizumab in combination with specific immunotherapy (hypo -sensitisation therapy).  In a clinical trial where omalizumab was co -administered with immunother apy, the safety and efficacy of omalizumab in combination with specific immunotherapy w ere found to be no different to that of omalizumab alone.  
 Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps  (CRSw 
 NP)  
 In clinical studies omalizumab was used in conjunction with intranasal mometasone spray as per protocol. Other commonly used concomitant medic inal products  included other intranasal corticosteroids, bronchodilators , antihistamines, leukotriene receptor antagonists, adrenergics/sympathomimetics and local nasal an aesthetics. There was no indication that the safety of omalizumab was altered by the concomitant use of these other commonly used medicinal products . 
 
