4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms o f interaction  
 Effect of food on abiraterone Administration with food significantly increases the absorption  of abiraterone. The efficacy and safety when given with food have not been established therefore this m edicinal product must not be taken with food (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
 Interactions with other medicinal products Potential for other medicinal products to affect abiraterone exposures  In a clinical pharmacokinetic i nteraction study of healthy subj ects pretreated with a strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin, 600 mg daily for 6 days followed by a singl e dose of abiraterone acetate 1000 mg, the mean plasma AUC ∞ of abiraterone was decreased by 55%. 
 Strong inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifa mpicin, rifabutin, rifapentine, phenobarbital, St John's wort [ Hypericum perforatum ]) during treatment are to be avoided, unless there is no therapeutic alternative. 
 In a separate clinical pharmacoki netic interaction study of hea lthy subjects, co-administration of ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, had no clinically m eaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of abiraterone. 
 Potential to affect exposures to other medicinal products  Abiraterone is an inhibitor of the hepatic drug-metabolising en zymes CYP2D6 and CYP2C8. In a study to determine the effects of abiraterone acetate (plu s prednisone) on a single dose of the CYP2D6 substrate dextromethorphan, the systemic exposure (AUC) of dextromethorphan was increased approximately 2.9 fold. The AUC 24 for dextrorphan, the active metabolite of dextromethorphan, increased approximately 33%. 
 Caution is advised when administering with medicinal products a ctivated by or metabolised by CYP2D6, particularly with medicinal products that have a narrow  therapeutic index. Dose reduction of 7  
 medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic index that are met abolised by CYP2D6 should be considered. Examples of medicinal products metabolised by CYP2D 6 include metoprolol, propranolol, desipramine, venla faxine, haloperidol, risperidone , propafenone, flecainide, codeine, oxycodone and tramadol (the latter three medicinal products req uiring CYP2D6 to form their active analgesic metabolites). 
 In a CYP2C8 drug-drug interaction study in healthy subjects, th e AUC of pioglitazone was increased by 46% and the AUCs for M-III a nd M-IV, the active metabolites of pioglitazone, each decreased by 
10% when pioglitazone was given together with a single dose of 1000 mg abiraterone a cetate. Patients should be monitored for signs of t oxicity related to a CYP2C8 s ubstrate with a narrow therapeutic index if used concomitantly. Exa mples of medicinal products met abolised by CYP2C8 include pioglitazone and repaglinide (see section 4.4). 
 In vitro , the major metabolites abiraterone sulphate and N-oxide abirat erone sulphate were shown to inhibit the hepatic uptake trans porter OATP1B1 and as a consequ ence it may increase the concentrations of medicinal products eliminated by OATP1B1. The re are no clinical data available to confirm transporter based interaction. 
 Use with products known to prolong QT interval  Since androgen deprivation treatment may prolong the QT interva l, caution is advised when administering Abiraterone Mylan with medicinal products known t o prolong the QT interval or medicinal products able to induce torsades de pointes such as c lass IA (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide) or class III (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide) antiarrhythmic medicinal products, methadone, moxifloxacin,  antipsychotics, etc. 
 Use with spironolactone  Spironolactone binds to the androgen receptor and may increase prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels. Use with Abiraterone Mylan is not recommended (see section 5.1) . 
 
