4.5  Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of in teraction  
  Due to its α 1-adrenergic receptor antagonism , aripiprazole has the potential  to enhance the effect of certain antihypertensive medicinal products.  
  Given the primary CNS effects of aripiprazole, caution should b e used when aripiprazole is administered in combination with  alcohol or other CNS medicinal  products with overlapping adverse reactions such as sedation (see section 4.8).  
  If aripiprazole is administered  concomitantly with medicinal pr oducts known to cause QT prolongation or electrolyte imbalance, caution should be used.  
  Potential for other medicinal products to affect aripiprazole   
  A gastric acid blocker, the H 2 antagonist famotidine, reduces aripiprazole rate of absorption  but this effect is deemed not clinically relevant. Aripiprazole is metab olised by multiple pathways involving the CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 enzymes but  not CYP1A enzymes. Thus, no d osage adjustment is required for smokers.  
  Quinidine and other CYP2D6 inhibitors   In a clinical trial in healthy subjects, a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6 (quinidine) increased aripiprazole AUC by 107 %, while Cmax was uncha nged. The AUC and Cmax of deh ydro-aripiprazole, the active metabolite, decreased by 32 % and 47 %, respectively. Aripipraz ole dose should be reduced to approximately one-half of its p rescribed dose when concomitant administration of aripiprazole with quinidine occurs. Other strong inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as fl uoxetine and paroxetine, may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose reductions sh ould therefore be applied.  
  Ketoconazole and other CYP3A4 inhibitors  In a clinical trial in healthy subjects, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4 (ketoconazole) increased aripiprazole AUC and Cmax by 63  % and 37 %, respectively. The A UC and Cmax of dehydroaripiprazole increased by 77 % and 43 %, respectively. I n CYP2D6 poor metabolisers, concomitant use of strong inhibito rs of CYP3A4 may result in hi gher plasma concentrations of aripiprazole compared to that in  CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers.  When considering concomitant administration of ketoconazole or other strong CYP3A4 inhibitor s with aripiprazole, potential benefits should outweigh the potential ri sks to the patient. When concom itant administration of ketoconazole with aripiprazole occurs, aripiprazole dose should be reduced t o approximately one-half of its prescribed dose. Other strong in hibitors of CYP3A4, such as itr aconazole and HIV protease inhibitors, may be expected to have similar effects and similar dose reduct ions should therefore be applied (see section 4.2). Upon discontinuation of the CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhi bitor, the dosage of aripiprazole should be increased to the level prior to the initiation of the  concomitant therapy. When weak 9  inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g. dilti azem) or CYP2D6 (e.g. escitalop ram) are used concomitantly with aripiprazole, modest increases in  plasma aripiprazole concentra tions may be expected.  
  Carbamazepine and other CYP3A4 inducers    Following concomitant administra tion of carbamazepine, a strong  inducer of CYP3A4, and oral aripiprazole to patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, the geometric means of Cmax and AUC for aripiprazole were 68 % and 73 % lower, respectively , compared to when aripiprazole (30 mg) was administered alone. Similarly, for dehydro-aripipra zole the geometric means of Cmax and AUC after carbamazepine co-adm inistration were 69 % and 71 % lower, respectively, than those following treatment with aripiprazole alone. Aripiprazole dose should be doubled when concomitant administration of aripiprazole occurs with carbamazepine. Conco mitant administration of aripiprazole and other inducers of CYP3A4 (s uch as rifampicin, rifabutin, ph enytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, efavirenz, nevirapine and St. John's Wort) may be expected to h ave similar effects and similar dose increases should therefore be a pplied. Upon discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers, the dosage of aripiprazole should be reduced to the recommended dose.  
  Valproate and lithium    When either valproate or lithiu m was administered concomitantly  with aripiprazole, there was no clinically significant change in aripiprazole concentrations an d therefore no dose adjustment is necessary when either valproate o r lithium is administered with  aripiprazole.  
  Potential for aripiprazole to a ffect other medicinal products  
  In clinical studies, 10 mg/day to 30 mg/day doses of aripiprazo le had no significant effect on the metabolism of substrates of CYP2D 6 (dextromethorphan/3-methoxym orphinan ratio), CYP2C9 (warfarin), CYP2C19 (omeprazole) , and CYP3A4 (dextromethorphan) . Additionally, aripiprazole and dehydro-aripipr azole did not show potential fo r altering CYP1A2-mediated metabolism in vitro . Thus, aripiprazole is unlikely to cause clinically important medicinal product interactions mediated by these enzymes.  
  When aripiprazole was administe red concomitantly with either va lproate, lithium or lamotrigine, there was no clinically important cha nge in valproate, lithium or lam otrigine concentrations.  
  Serotonin syndrome  Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported in patients taki ng aripiprazole, and possible signs and symptoms for this condition can occur especially in cases of co ncomitant use with other serotonergic medicinal products, such as selec tive serotonin reuptake inhibi tor/selective serotonin noradrenalin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI/SNRI), o r with medicinal products that  are known to increase aripiprazole concentrations (see section 4.8).  
  
