4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Clinically significant drug interactions mediated by fluticasone furoate/vilanterol at clinical doses are considered unlikely due to the low plasma concentrations achieved after inhaled dosing.  
 Interaction with beta -blockers  
 Beta 2-adrenergic blockers may weaken or antagonise the effect of beta 2-adrenergic agonists. Concurrent use of both non -selective and selective beta 2-adrenergic blockers should be avoided unless there are compelling reasons for their use . 
 Interaction with CYP3A4 inhibitors  
 Fluticasone  furoate and vilanterol are both rapidly cleared by extensive first pass metabolism mediat ed by the liver enzyme CYP3A4.  
 Caution is advised when co -administering with strong CYP 3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, ritonavir , cobicistat -containing products ) as there is potential for increased systemic exposure to both fluticasone furoate and vilanterol . Co-administration should be avoided unless the benefit outweighs the increased risk of systemic corticosteroid undesirable  effects, in which case patients should be monitored for systemic corticosteroid undesirable  effects . A repeat dose CYP3A4 drug interaction study was performed in healthy subjects with the fluticasone furoate/vilanterol combination 9 (184/22 micrograms ) and the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole (400  mg). Co-administration increased mean fluticasone furoate AUC (0-24) and C max by 36% and 33%, respectively. The increase in fluticasone furoate exposure was associated with a 27% reduction in 0- 24 hours  weighted mean serum cortisol.  Co-administration increased mean vilanterol AUC (0-t) and C max 65% and 22%, respectively.  The increas e in vilanterol exposure was not associated with an increase in beta 2-agonist related systemic effects on heart rate, blood potassium or QTc 
 F interval.   
 Interaction with P -glycoprotein inhibitors  
 Fluticasone furoate and vilanterol are both substrates of P -glycoprotein (P -gp). A clinical pharmacology study in healthy subjects with co- administered vilanterol and the potent P -gp and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor verapamil did not show any significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of vilanterol. Cl inical pharmacology studies with a specific P -gp inhibitor and fluticasone furoate have not been conducted.  
 Sympathomimetic medicinal products  
 Concomitant administration of other sympathomimetic medicinal products (alone or as part of combination therapy) may potentiate the adverse reactions of fluticasone furoate/vilanterol.  Revinty Ellipta should not be used in conjunction with other long- acting beta 2-adrenergic agonists or medicinal products containing long- acting beta 2-adrenergic agonists.  
 Paediatric  population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
