4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 During treatment, simultaneous use of other fumaric acid esters (topical or systemic) should be avoided.  
 Vumerity  should not be administered concomitantly with dimethyl fumarate.  
 Potential interaction risks were not identified from in vitro  and/or in vivo  inhibition studies of transporters, from in vitro  CYP -inhibition and induction studies, or studies of the protein binding of diroximel fumarate and its major metabolites, active metabolite monomethyl fumarate (MMF) and inactive metabolite 2-hydroxyethyl succinimide (HES) . 
 Although not studied with diroximel fumarate, i n vitro  CYP  induction studies did not demonstrate an interaction between dimethyl fumarate  and oral contraceptives. In an in vivo  study, co -administration of dimethyl fumarate  with a combined oral contraceptive (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol) did not elicit any relevant change in oral contraceptive exposure. No interaction studies have been performed with oral contraceptives containing other progestogens, however an effect  of diroximel fumarate  on their ex posure is not expected.  
 Diroximel fumarate has not been studied in combination with anti -neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies and caution should, therefore, be used during concomitant administration. In MS  clinical studies, the concomitant treatment of relapses with a short course of intravenous corticosteroids was not associated with a clinically relevant increase of infection.  
 Concomitant administration of non-live vaccines according to national vaccination schedules may be considered during Vumerity  therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71  patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis  (RRMS), patients on dimethyl fumarate  240 mg twice daily for at least 
6 months (n=38) or non- pegylated interferon for at least 3  months (n=33), mounted a comparable immune response (defined as ≥  2-fold increase from pre - to post -vaccination titre ) to tetanus toxoid (recall antigen) and a conjugated meningococcal C polysaccharide vaccine (neoantigen), while the immune response to different serotypes of an unconjugated 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (T -cell independent antigen) varied in both treatment groups. A positive immune response defined as a ≥  4-fold increase in antibody tit re to the three vaccines, was achieved by fewer patients  in both treatment groups. Small numerical differences in the response to tetanus toxoid and pneumoc occal serotype 3  polysaccharide were noted in favour of non-pegylated interferon.  
 No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated vaccines in patients taking Vumerity . Live vaccines might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should not be given to patients unless, in exceptional cases, this potential risk is considered to be outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vaccinating.  
 Evidence from healthy volunteer studies suggests that dimethyl fumarate-associated flushing is likely to be prostaglandin mediated. In two healthy volunteer studies  with dimethyl fumarate, the 8 administration of 325 mg (or equivalent) non enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid, 30 minutes prior to dimethyl fumarate , dosing over 4 days and over 4 weeks, respectively, did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate. Potential risks associated with acetylsalicylic acid therapy should be considered prior to co-administration with Vumerity  in patients with relapsing remitting MS. Long term ( > 4 weeks) continuous use of acetylsalicylic acid has not been studied (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
 Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, diuretics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or lithium) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions (e.g. proteinuria see section  4.8) in patients taking Vumerity  (see section  4.4). 
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
