4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. The absolute extent of interactions in the paediatric  population is not known. The interaction data obtained in adults and the warnings in section 
4.4 should be taken into account for the paediatric  population.  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 Nitrates  In a clinical study the highest dose of riociguat (2.5 mg tablets 3 times daily ) potentiated the blood pressure lowering effect of sublingual nitroglycerin (0.4  mg) taken 4  and 8 hours after intake. Therefore , co-administration of riociguat with nitrates or nitric oxide donors (such as amyl nitrite)  in any form, including recreational drugs called ‘poppers’, is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 PDE5 inhibitors  Preclinical studies in animal models showed additive systemic blood pressure lowering effect when riociguat was combined with either sildenafil or vardenafil. With increased doses, over additive effects on systemic blood pressure were observed in some cases.  In an exploratory interaction study in 7  patients with PAH on stable sildenafil treatment (20  mg 
3 times daily ) single doses of riociguat (0. 5 mg and 1 mg sequentially) showed additive haemodynamic effects. Doses above 1  mg riociguat were not investigated in this study.  A 12 week combination study in 18  patients with PAH on stable sildenafil treatment (20  mg 3 times daily) and riociguat (1.0  mg to 2.5 mg 3 times daily ) compared to sildenafil alone was performed. In the long-term extension part of this study ( non-controlled) the concomitant use of sildenafil and riociguat resulted in a high rate of discontinuation, predominately due to hypotensio n. There was no evidence of a favourable clinical effect of the combination in the population studied.  Concomitant use of riociguat with PDE5  inhibitors (such as sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil) is contraindicated (see section s 4.2 and 4.3). RESPITE was a 24-week, uncontrolled study to investigate switching from PDE5  inhibitors to riociguat, in 61  adult PAH patients on stable PDE5  inhibitors . All patients were WHO  Functional Class III and 82% received background therapy with an endothelin receptor antagon ist (ERA). For the transition from PDE 5 inhibitors to riociguat, median treatment -free time for sildenafil was 1  day and for tadalafil 3  days. Overall, the safety profile observed in the study was comparable with that observed in the pivotal trials, with n o serious adverse events reported during the transition period. Six patients (10%) experienced at least one clinical worsening event, including 2  deaths unrelated to study drug. Changes from baseline suggested beneficial effects in selected patients, e.g. improvement in 6MWD (+ 31 m), N-terminal prohormo ne of brain natriuretic peptide ( NT-pro 
 BNP) levels (-347 pg/m 
 L) and WHO  FC I/II/III/IV,% (2/52/46/0), cardiac index (+ 0.3 L/min/m2). 
 Soluble Guanylate Cyclase Stimulators  Concomitant use of riociguat with other soluble guanylate cyclase stimulators is contraindicated ( see section 4.3). 
 Warfarin/phenprocoumon  Concomitant treatment of riociguat and warfarin did not alter prothrombin time induced by the 9 anticoagulant. The concomitant use of riociguat with other cumarin -derivatives (e.g. phenprocoumon) is also not expected to alter prothrombin time.  Lack of pharmacokinetic interactions between riociguat and the CYP2C9 substrate warfarin was demonstrated in vivo. 
 Acetylsalicylic acid  Riociguat did not potent iate the bleeding time caused by acetyl -salicylic acid or affect the platelet aggregation in humans. 
 Effects of other substances on riociguat  
 Riociguat is cleared mainly via cytochrome P450 -mediated (CYP1A1, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, CYP2J2) oxidative metabolism, direct biliary/faecal excretion of unchanged riociguat and renal excretion of unchanged riociguat via glomerular filtration.  
 Concomitant use with strong multi pathway CYP and P -gp/BCRP inhibitors  
 Highly active  antiretroviral therapy ( HAART)  
 In vitro, abacavir, rilpivirine, efavirenz, ritonavir, cobicistat and elvitegravir inhibited CYP1A1 and the metabolism of riociguat in the order listed with abacavir as the strongest inhibitor. Cobicistat, ritonavir, atazanavir and darunavir are additionally classif ied as CYP3A inhibitors. In addition, ritonavir showed inhibition of P -gp. 
 The impact of  HAART (including different combinations of abacavir, atazanavir, cobicistat, darunavir, dolutegravir, efavirenz, elvitegravir, emtricitabine, lamivudine, rilpivirine, ritonavir, and tenofovir) on riociguat exposure was investigated in a dedicated study in HIV patients. Concomitant administration of HAART combinations led to an increase in riociguat mean AUC of up to about 
160% and to an approximate 30% increase in mean C max. The safety profile observed in HIV patients taking a single dose of 0.5  mg riocigua t together with different combinations of HIV drugs used in HAART was generally comparable to other patient populations.  
 To mitigate the risk of hypotension when riociguat is initiated in patients on stable doses of strong multi pathway CYP (especially CY P1A1 and CYP3A4) and P -gp/BCRP inhibitors, e.g. as contained in HAART, consider a reduced starting dose. It is recommended to monitor these patients for signs and symptoms of hypotension (see sections  4.2 and  4.4). 
 Antifungals  
 In vitro, ketoconazole, cl assified as a strong CYP3A4 and P -glycoprotein (P -gp) inhibitor, has been shown to be a multi -pathway CYP and P -gp/breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) inhibitor for riociguat metabolism and excretion (see section  5.2). Concomitant administration of 400  mg once daily ketoconazole led to a 150% (range up to 370%) increase in riociguat mean AUC and a 46% increase in mean C max. Terminal half -life increased from 7.3  to 9.2 hours and total body clearance decreased from 6.1  to 2.4 L/h. 
 To mitigate the risk of  hypotension when riociguat is initiated in patients on stable doses of strong multi pathway CYP (especially CYP1A1 and CYP3A4) and P -gp/BCRP inhibitors, e.g. ketoconazole, posaconazole  or itraconazole consider a reduced starting dose. It is recommended to  monitor these patients for signs and symptoms of hypotension (see sections  4.2 and 4.4). 
 Concomitant use with other CYP and P -gp/BCRP inhibitors  
 Medicinal products  strongly inhibiting P -gp/BCRP such as the immuno -suppressive cyclosporine A, should be us ed with caution (see sections  4.4 and 5.2). 
 10 Inhibitors for the UDP -Glykosyltransferases  (UGT) 1A1 and 1A9 may potentially increase the exposure of the riociguat metabolite M 1, which is pharmacologically active (pharmacological activity: 
1/10th to 1/3rd of riociguat).  For co-administration with these substances follow the recommendation on dose titration (see section  4.2). 
 From the recombinant CYP isoforms investigated in vitro CYP1A1 catalysed formation of riociguat’s main metabolite most effectively. The class of tyrosine kinase inhibitors was identified as potent inhibitors of CYP1A1, with erlotinib and gefitinib exhibiting the highest inhibitory potency in vitro. Therefore, drug-drug interactions by inhibition of CYP1A1 could result in increased riociguat exposure, especially in smokers (see section  5.2). Strong CYP1A1 inhibitors should be used with caution (see section  4.4). 
 Concomitant use with medicinal products  increasi ng gastric p 
 H  
 Riociguat exhibits a reduced solubility at neutral p 
 H vs. acidic medium. Co -treatment  of medicinal products increasing the upper gastro intestinal p 
 H may lead to lower oral bioavailability.  
 Co-administration of the antacid aluminium hydroxi de / magnesium hydroxide reduced riociguat mean AUC by 34% and mean C max by 56% (see section  4.2). Antacids should be taken at least 2  hours before, or 1  hour after riociguat.  
 Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers  
 Bosentan, reported to be a moderate inducer of CYP3A4, led to a decrease of riociguat steady -state plasma concentrations in PAH patients by 27% (see sections  4.1 and 5.1). For co-administration with bosentan follow the recommendation on dose titration (see section  4.2). 
 The concomitant use of riociguat with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbitone or St. John’s Wort) may also lead to decreased riociguat plasma concentration.  For co-administration with strong CYP3A4 inducers follow the recommendation on  dose titration (see section 4.2). 
 Smoking  
 In cigarette smokers riociguat exposure is reduced by 50 -60% (see section  5.2). Therefore, patients are advised to stop smoking (see section  4.2). 
 Effects of riociguat on other substances  
 Riociguat and its main metabolit e are strong inhibitors of CYP1A1 in vitro. Therefore, clinically relevant drug -drug interactions with co -treatment which are significantly cleared by CYP1A1-mediated biotransformation, such as erlotinib or granisetron cannot be ruled out.  
 Riociguat and i ts main metabolite are not inhibitors or inducers of major CYP isoforms (including CYP 3A4) or transporters (e.g. P -gp/BCRP) in vitro at therapeutic plasma concentrations.  
 Patients must not get pregnant during riociguat therapy (see section  4.3). Riocigua t (2.5 mg 3 times per day) did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the plasma levels of combined oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol when concomitantly administered to healthy female subjects. Based  on this study and  as riociguat is not an inducer of any of the relevant metabolic enzymes, also no pharmacokinetic interaction is expected with other hormonal contraceptives.  
 11 