4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interactio n 
 Eurartesim is contraindicated in patients already taking other medicinal products that are known to prolong the QTc interval due to the risk of a pharmacodynamic interaction leading to an additive effect on the QTc interval (see section s 4.3 and 4.4).  
 A limited number of d rug-drug pharm acokinetic interaction studies with Eurartesim have been performed  in healthy adult subjects . Therefore the  assessment of the potential for drug -drug interaction s to occur  is based on either in vivo  or in vitro  studies.  
 Effect of Eurartesim on co -administered medicinal products  Piperaquine is metabolised by , and is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 . The concurrent administration of oral Eurartesim with 7.5  mg oral midazolam , a CYP3A4 probe substrate , led to a modest increase (≤2 -fold) in midazolam and its metabolites exposure s in healthy adult subjects. This inhibitory effect was no longer evident one week after last administration of Eurartesim.  Therefore , particular attention should be paid when medicinal products that have a narrow therapeutic index (e.g. antiretroviral medicinal products and cyclosporine)  are co -administered with Eurartesim .  
 From in vitro  data, p iperaquine undergoes a low level of metabolism by CYP2C19 , and is also an inhibitor of this enzyme. There is the potential for reducing the rate of metabolism of other substrates of this enzyme, such as omeprazole, with consequent increase of their plasma concentration , and therefore , of their toxicity.  
 Piperaqu ine has the potential to increase the rate of metabolism for CYP2E1 substrates resulting in a decrease in the plasma concentrations of substrates such as paracetamol  or theophylline , and the anaesthetic gases enflurane, halothane and isoflurane. The main c onsequence of this interaction could be a reduction of efficacy of the co -administered medicinal products .  
 7  Artenimol  administration may result in a slight decrease in CYP1A2 activity. Caution is therefore , advised when Eurartesim is administered concomita ntly with medicinal products metabolised by this enzyme that have a narrow therapeutic index, such as theophylline. Any effects are unlikely to persist beyond 24  hours after the last intake of  artenimol.   
 Effect of co -administered medicinal products on Eu rartesim  Piperaquine is metabolised by CYP3A4  in vitro . The concurrent administration of a single dose of oral clarithromycin , (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor probe) with a single dose of oral Eurartesim led to a modest increase (≤ 2-fold) in piperaquine exposure in healthy adult subjects.  This increase in exposure to the antimalarial combination may result in an exacerbation of the effect on QTc (see section 4. 4). Therefore, particular caution is required if Eurartesim is administered to patie nts taking potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. some HIV-protease inhibitors atazanavir , darunavir,  indinavir, lopinavir,  ritonavir], or verapamil and ECG monitoring should be consi dered due to the risk of higher plasma concentratio ns of piperaquine  (see section 4.4) . 
 Enzyme inducing  medicinal products  such as rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital,  St. John’s  wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) are likely to lead to reduced piperaquine plasma concentration s. The concentration of artenimol may also be reduced.  
 When co -administered with efavirenz, the plasma concentration of piperaquine was decreased by 43%.  Reduced plasma concentrations of piperaquine and/or artenimol may lead to therapeutic failure. Therefore,  concomitant  treatment with such medicinal products is not recommended.  
 Paediatric population  Drug -drug interaction studies have only been performed in adults. The extent of interactions in the paediatric population is not  known. The above mentioned interactions for adults and the warnings in section 4.4 should be taken into account for the  paediatric population.  
 Oral contraceptives  When co -administered to healthy women, Eurartesim exerted only a minimum  effect on an estrogen/progestinic combination oral contraceptive treatment increasing the ethynilestradiol rate of absorption (expressed by geometric mean C max) of about 28% but not significantly changing the exposure to ethynilestradiol and levonorgestrel and not influencing contraception activity as demonstrated by the similar plasma concentrations of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH) and progesterone obse rved after oral contraceptive treatment with or without concomitant Eurartesim administration.  
 Food interaction  Absorption of piperaquine is increased in the presence of fatty food (see section s 4.4 and  5.2) which  may increase its effect on QTc interval. Therefore, Eurartesim should be taken with water only as described in section 4.2 . Eurartesim should not be taken with grapefruit juice a s it is likely to lead to increased piperaquine plasma concentration s. 
 
