4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Potential for other medicinal products to affect the pharmacokinetics of upadacitinib  
 Upadacitinib is metabolised mainly by CYP3A4. Therefore, upadacitinib plasma exposures can be affected by medicinal products that strongly inhibit or induce CYP3A4.  
 Coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors 
 Upadacitinib exposure is increased when co -administered with strong CYP3A 4 inhibitors (such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole , voriconazole, clarithromycin , and grapefruit). In a clinical study, coadministration of upadacitinib with ketoconazole resulted in 70% and 75% increase s in upadacitinib Cmax and AUC, respectively. Upadacitinib 15 mg once daily should be used with caution in patients receiving chronic treatment with strong CYP3A 4 inhibitors. Upadacitinib 30 mg once daily dose is not recommended for patients with atopic dermatitis  receiving chronic treatment with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. For patients with ulcerative colitis  or Crohn’s disease using strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the recommended induction dose is 30  mg once daily and the recommended maintenance dose is 15 mg once daily (see section 4.2). Alternatives to strong CYP3A4 in hibitor medications should be considered when used in the long -term. Food or drink containing grapefruit should be avoided during treatment with upadacitinib.  
 Coadministration with  CYP3A4 inducers 
 Upadacitinib exposure is decreased when co -administered with strong CYP3A4 inducers (such as rifampin and phenytoin), which may lead to reduced therapeutic effect of upadacitinib. In a clinical study, co-administration of upadacitinib after multiple doses of rifampicin (strong CYP3A inducer) resulted in approximately 50% and 60% decrease s in upadacitinib Cmax and AUC, respectively. Patients should be monitored for changes in disease activity if upadacitinib is co-administered with strong CYP3A4 inducers. 
 Methotrexate and p 
 H modifying medicinal products (e.g., antacids or proton pump inhibitors) have no effect on upadacitinib plasma exposures.  
 Potential for upadacitinib to affect the pharmacokinetics of other  medicinal products 
 Administration of multiple  30 mg or 45 mg once daily doses of upadacitinib  to healthy subjects had a limited effect on midazolam (sensitive substrate for CYP3A) plasma exposures ( 24-26% decrease in midazolam AUC and C max), indicating that upadacitinib 30 mg or 45 mg once daily may have a weak induction effect on CYP3A. In a clinical study, rosuvastatin and atorvastatin AUC were decreased by 
33% and 23%, respectively, and rosuvastatin C max was decreased by 23% following the administration of multiple 30 mg once daily doses of upadacitinib to healthy subjects. Upadacitinib had no relevant effect on atorvastatin C max or on plasma exposures of ortho -hydroxyatorvastatin (major active 12 metabolite for atorvastatin). Administration of multiple 45  mg once daily doses of upadacitinib to healthy subjects led to a limited increase in AUC and Cmax of dextromethorphan (sensitive CYP2D6 substrate) by 30% and 35%, respectively , indicating that upadacitinib 45  mg once daily has a weak inhibitory effect on CYP2D6. No dose adjustment is recommended for CYP3A substrates, CYP2D6 substrates, rosuvastatin or atorvastatin when coadministered with upadacitinib.  
 Upadacitinib has no relevant effects on plasma exposures of ethinylestradiol, levonorgestrel, methotrexate, or medicinal products that are substra tes for metabolism by CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9, or CYP2C19. 
 
