4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Voclosporin is metabolised by CYP3A4 and is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P- gp) and organic-anion-transporting polypeptide (OATP)1B1 and OATP1B3.  Potential for other medicinal products to affect voclosporin exposure  
 Voclosporin is metabolised by CYP3A4. Concomitant use of medicinal products or herbal remedies known to inhibit or induce CYP3A4 may affect the metabolism of voclosporin and thereby increase or decrease voclosporin blood levels. 
 CYP3A4 inhibitors Voclosporin exposure was 18.6-fold higher in the presence of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole compared to voclosporin administered al one. Co-administration of voclosporin with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin) is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Voclosporin exposure was 2.71-fold higher in the presence of the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor verapam il compared to voclosporin administration alone. Reduce the dose to 15.8 mg in the morning and 7.9 mg in the evening when voclosporin is co-administered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., verapamil, fluconazole, erythromycin, diltiazem, grapefruit and grapefruit juice, see section 4.2). 
 Mild CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase voclosporin exposure, but no in vivo study has been performed. No dose adjustment is required when voclosporin is co -administered with mild CYP3A4 inhibitors but additional monitoring of e 
 GFR is recommended when initiating treatment with a mild CYP3A4 inhibitor. 
 CYP3A4 inducers Voclosporin exposure was 87 % lower and maximum concentration ( Cmax) was 68 % lower in the presence of the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin (600 mg once daily for 10 consecutive days) compared to voclosporin administration alone. Co-administration of multiple doses of moderate CYP3A4 inducers are also expected to result in clinically relevant decreases of voclosporin exposure.  
 Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, phenobarbital, rifampicin, St John’s Wort, efavirenz) are not recommended to be dosed concomitantly with voclosporin (see section 4.4). Mild inducers of CYP3A4 may also result in decreased exposure and possibly a decreased effect, but the clinical relevance is unknown. 
 Potential for voclosporin to affect exposure to other medicinal products 
 P-gp substrates Voclosporin is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Concomitant administration of voclosporin with multiple doses of digoxin increased digoxin Cmax and area under the curve (AUC) by 1.51- fold and 
1.25- fold, respectively. Caution must be exercised in case of co-administration of voclosporin with sensitive P -gp substrates, especially those with narrow therapeutic index (e.g., digoxin, dabigatran etexilate, fexofenadine) where patients should be appropriately monitored as outlined in respective product label ling. 
 OATP1B1/OATP1B3 substrates  Voclosporin is an inhibitor of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 transporters. In one clinical study the concomitant administration of a single  40 mg dose of simvastatin with 23.7 mg BID voclosporin increased Cmax and AUC of the active metabolite simvastatin acid (a sensitive OATP1B1/OATP1B3 7 substrate) by 3.1- fold and 1.8- fold, respectively. In the same study, exposure of the parent drug simvastatin  (which is also a BCRP substrate)  was unaffected in terms of AUC while its C max increased by 1.6-fold, which could potentially be attributed to an interaction between intestinal BCRP and voclosporin. Patients should be monitored for adverse events such as myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when OATP1B1/OATP1B3 substrates (e.g., simvastatin, atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin ) are used concomitantly with voclosporin.  BCRP substrates  Voclosporin inhibits breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) in vitro . A clinically relevant inhibition of intestinal BCRP cannot be excluded and voclosporin may increase the concentration of these substrates in vivo . Monitor use of BCRP substrates where small concentration ch anges may lead to serious toxicity (e.g., rosuvastatin) when used concomitantly with voclosporin. 
 MMF  Co-administration of voclosporin with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) had no clinically significant impact on mycophenolic acid (MPA) blood concentrations. 
 CYP3A4 substrates Multiple administrations of voclosporin orally (0.4 mg/kg twice daily) had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate midazolam.  
 