4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Eliglustat is metabolised primarily by CYP2D6 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A4. Concomitant  administration of substances affecting CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 activity may alter eliglustat plasma concentrations. Eliglustat is an inhibitor of P -gp and CYP2D6 in vitro; concomitant administration of eliglustat with P-gp or CYP2D6 substrate substances may incr ease the plasma concentration  of those substances . 
 The list of substances  in section 4.5 is not an inclusive list and the prescriber is advised to consult the Sm 
 PC of all other prescribed medicinal products for potential drug -drug interactions with elig lustat. 
 Agents that may increase eliglustat exposure  
 Cerdelga is contraindicated in patients who are CYP2D6 intermediate metabolisers ( IMs) or extensive metabolisers ( EMs) taking a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor concomitantly with a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor , and in patients who are CYP2D6 poor metabolisers ( PMs) taking a strong CYP3A inhibitor (see section  4.3). Use of Cerdelga under these conditions results in substantially elevated eliglustat plasma concentrations .  
 CYP2D6 inhibitors  In intermediate (IMs) and extensive metaboli sers (EMs):  
 After repeated 84  mg twice daily  doses of eliglustat  in non-PMs, concomitant administration with repeated 30  mg once daily  doses of paroxetine, a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6, resulted in a 7 .3- and 
8.9-fold increase in eliglustat C max and AUC 0-12, respectively.  A dose of  eliglustat 84 mg once daily should  be considered when a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor  (e.g. paroxetine,  fluoxetine, quinidine, bupropion) is used concomitantly in IMs and EMs.  
 At 84 mg twice daily  dosing with eliglustat  in non -PMs, it is predicted that concomitant use of moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g.  duloxetine, terbinafine , moclobemide, mirabegron, cinacalcet , dronedarone ) would increase eliglustat exposure approximately up to 4-fold. Caution should be used with moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors  in IMs and EMs . 
 In extensive metabolisers (EMs) with mild or moderate hepatic impairment:  see sectio ns 4.2, 4.3 and 
4.4.  In extensive metabolisers (EMs) with severe hepatic impairment:  see section s 4.2 and  4.3. CYP3A inhibitors  
 6 In intermediate (IMs) and extensive metaboli sers (EMs) : 
 After repeated 84  mg twice daily  doses of eliglustat  in non-PMs, concomitant administration with  repeated 400  mg once daily doses of  ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A, resulted in a 3.8 and 
4.3-fold increase in eliglustat C max and AUC 0-12, respectively ; similar effects would be expected for other strong  inhibitors of CYP3A (e.g.  clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole , cobicistat,  indinavir, lopinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, tipranavir, posaconazole, voriconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan , boceprevir ). Caution should be used with strong CYP3A inhibitors  in IMs and EMs . 
 At 84  mg twice daily  dosing with eliglustat  in non -PMs, it is predicted that concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors (e.g.  erythromycin, ciprofloxacin, fluconazole , diltiazem, verap amil, aprepitant , atazanavir, darunavir, fosamprenavir, imatinib , cimetidine ) would increase eliglustat exposure approximately up to 3-fold. Caution should be used with moderate CYP3A inhibitors  in IMs and EMs . 
 In extensive metabolisers (EMs) with mild hepatic impairment:  see section s 4.2 and 4.4 .  
 In extensive metabolisers (EMs) with moderate or severe hepatic impairment:  see section s 4.2 and  4.3. 
 In poor metabolisers ( PMs): 
 At 84 mg once daily dosing with eliglustat  in PMs , it is predicted that concomitant use of strong CYP3A  inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, clarithromycin, itraconazole, cobicistat,  indinavir, lopinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, tipranavir, posaconazole, voriconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan , boce previr) would increase the C max and AUC 0-24 of eliglustat 4.3 - and 6.2 -fold. The use of strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated in PMs.  
 At 84 mg once daily dosing with eliglustat  in PMs , it is predicted that concomitant use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors  (e.g. erythromycin, ciprofloxacin, fluconazole, diltiazem, verapamil, aprepitant , atazanavir, darunavir, fosamprenavir, imatinib , cimetidine ) would increase the C max and AUC 0-24 of eliglustat 2.4 - and 3.0 -fold, respectively.  Use of a moderate CYP 3A inhibi tor with eliglustat is not recommended in PMs . 
 Caution should be used with weak CYP3A inhibitors  (e.g. amlo dipine, cilostazol, fluvoxamine, goldenseal, isoniazid, ranitidine, ranolazine) in PMs.  
 CYP2D6 inhibitors used simultaneously with CY P3A inhibitors  In intermediate (IMs) and extensive metaboli sers (EMs):  
 At 84 mg twice daily dosing with eliglustat  in non -PMs, it is predicted that the concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitors  and strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors would incre ase Cmax and AUC 0-12 up to 17 - and 25 -fold, respectively . The use of a strong or moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor concomitantly with a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor  is contraindicated in IMs and EMs.  
 Grapefruit products contain one or more components that inhibit CYP3A and can increase plasma concentrations of eliglustat. Consumption of grapefruit or its juice should be avoided.  
 Agents that may decrease eliglustat exposure  
 Strong CYP3A inducers  After  repeated 127  mg twice daily  doses of eliglustat  in non -PMs, concomitant administration of repeated 600 mg once daily  doses of rifampicin (a strong inducer of CYP3A as well as the efflux transporter P -gp) resulted in an approximately 85% decrease in eliglu stat exposure.  After repeated 
84 mg twice daily doses of eliglustat in PMs , concomitant administration of repeated 600  mg once daily  doses of rifampicin resulted in an approximately  95% decrease in eliglustat exposure . Use of a 7 strong CYP3A inducer ( e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifabutin and St. John’s wort) with eliglustat is not recommended  in IMs, EMs and PMs . 
 Agents whose exposure may be increased by eliglustat  
 P-gp substrates  After a single 0.25  mg dose of  digoxin, a P -gp substrate, concomitant administration of 127  mg twice daily  doses of eliglustat  resulted in a 1.7 - and 1.5 -fold increase in digoxin C max and AUC last, respectively. Lower doses of substances which are P-gp substrate s (e.g. digoxin, colchicin e, dabigatran, phenytoin , pravastatin ) may be required.  
 CYP2D6 substrates  After a single 50  mg dose of metoprolol, a CYP2D6 substrate, concomitant administration of repeated 
127 mg twice daily  doses of eliglustat resulted in a 1.5 - and 2.1 -fold increase i n metoprolol C max and AUC, respectively. Lower doses of medicinal products that are CYP2D6 substrate s may be required . These include certain antidepressants (tricyclic antidepressants, e.g.  nortriptyline, amitriptyline, imipramine , and desipramine ), phenothiazines, dextromethorphan and atomoxetine ). 
 
