4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interactions between canakinumab  and other medicinal products have not been investigated in formal studies.  
 An increased incidence of serious infections has been associated with administration of another IL -1 blocker in combination w ith TNF inhibitors. Use of canakinumab  with TNF inhibitors is not recommended because this may increase the risk of serious infections.  
 The expression of hepatic CYP450 enzymes may be suppressed by the cytokines that stimulate chronic inflammation, such a s interleukin -1 beta ( IL-1 beta). Thus, CYP450 expression may be reversed when potent cytokine inhibitory therapy, such as canakinumab, is introduced. This is clinically relevant for CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index where the dose is indiv idually adjusted. On initiation of canakinumab in patients being treated with this type of medicinal product, therapeutic monitoring of the effect or of the active substance concentration should be performed and the individual dose of the medicinal product  adjusted as necessary.  
 No data are available on either the effects of live vaccination or the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving canakinumab. Therefore, live vaccines should not be given concurrently with canakinum ab unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks . Should vaccination with live vaccines be indicated after initiation of canakinumab  treatment, the recommendation is to wait for at least 3  months after the last canakinumab  injection and before the next on e (see section  4.4). 
 The results of a study in healthy adult subjects demonstrated that a single dose of canakinumab 
300 mg did not affect the induction and persistence of antibody responses after vaccination with influenza or glycosylated protein based meningococcus vaccines.  
 The results of a 56 -week, open label study in CAPS patients aged 4  years and younger demonstrated that all patients who received non -live, standard of care childhood vaccinations developed protective antibody levels.  
 
