4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 Interaction studies with Xultophy have not been performed.  A number of substances affect glucose metabolism and may require dose adjustment of Xultophy . 
 The following substances may reduce the Xultophy requirement:  Antidiabetic  medicinal  products, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI), beta -blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor s, salicylates, anabolic steroids and sul fonamides.  
 The following substances may increase the Xultophy  requirement:  Oral contraceptives, thiazides, glucocorticoids, thyroid hormones, sympathomimetics, growth hormones and danazol.  
 Beta-blockers may mask the symptoms of hypoglycaemia.  Octreotide/lanreotide may either increase or decrease the Xultophy requirement. Alcohol may intensify or reduce the hypoglycaemic effect of Xultophy . 
 Pharmacokinetic interactions  
 In vitro data suggest that the potential for pharmacokinetic drug interactions related to CYP interaction and protein binding is low  for both liraglutide and insulin degludec . 
 The small delay of gastric emptying with liraglutide may influence absorption of concom itantly administered oral medicinal products. Interaction studies did not show any clinically relevant delay of absorption.  
 Warfarin and other coumarin derivatives  No interaction study has been performed. A clinically relevant interaction with active substan ces with poor solubility or with narrow therapeutic index such as warfarin cannot be excluded. Upon initiation of Xultophy treatment in patients on warfarin or other coumarin derivatives more frequent monitoring of INR (International Normalis ed Ratio) is recommended.  
 Paracetamol  Liraglutide did not change the overall exposure of paracetamol following a single dose of 1  000 mg. Paracetamol C max was decreased by 31% and median t max was delayed up to 15 min. No dose adjustment for concomitant use of paracetamol is required.  
 7 Atorvastatin  Liraglutide did not change the overall exposure of atorvastatin to a clinical relevant degree following single dose ad ministration of atorvastatin 40  mg. Therefore, no dose adjustment of atorvastati n is required when given with liraglutide. Atorvastatin C max was decreased by 38% and median t max was delayed from 1 h to 3  h with liraglutide.  
 Griseofulvin  Liraglutide did not change the overall exposure of griseofulvin following administration of a sing le dose of griseofulvin 500  mg. Griseofulvin C max increased by 37% while median t max did not change. Dose adjustments of griseofulvin and other compounds with low solubility and high permeability are not required.  
 Digoxin  A single dose administration of digoxin 1  mg with liraglutide resulted in a reduction of digoxin AUC by 16%; C max decreased by 31%. Digoxin median time to maximum concentration (t max) was delayed from 1  h to 1.5  h. No dose adjustment of digoxin is required based on these results.  
 Lisinop ri l  A single dose administration of lisinopril 20  mg with liraglutide resulted in a reduction of lisinopril AUC by 15%; C max decreased by 27%. Lisinopril median t max was delayed from 6  h to 8  h with liraglutide. No dose adjustment of lisinopril is required based on these results.  
 Oral contraceptives  Liraglutide lowered ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel C max by 12 and 13%, respectively, following administration of a single dose of an oral contraceptive product. T max was delayed by 1.5  h with liraglutide for both compounds. There was no clinically relevant effect on the overall exposure of either ethinylestradiol or levonorgestrel. The contraceptive effect is therefore anticipated to be unaffected when co -administered with liraglutide.  
 