4.5 Interaction with other medicinal product s and other forms of interaction  
 Interactions studies have only been performed in adults.   Increased side effects may occur in case o f recent or concomitant use of hepatotoxic or haematotoxic medicinal products  or when leflunomide treatment is followed b y such medicinal products  without a washout period (see also guidance concerning combination with other treatments, section 4.4). There fore, closer monitoring of liver enzymes and haematological parameters is recommended in the initial phase after switchin g. 
 Methotrexate  
 In a small (n=30) study with co- administration of leflunomide (10 to 20 mg per day) with methotrexate (10 to 25 mg pe r week) a 2 - to 3-fold elevation in liver enzymes was seen on 5 of 
30 patients. All elevations resolved, 2 with continuation of both medicinal products and 3 after discontinuation of leflunomide. A more than 3- fold increase was seen in another 5  patients. Al l of these also resolved, 2 with continuation of both medicinal products and 3 after discontinuation of leflunomide.   In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, no pharmacokinetic interaction between the leflunomide (10 to 
20 mg per day) and methotrexate (1 0 to 25 mg per week) was demonstrated. 
 Vaccinations  
 No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of vaccin ations under leflunomide treatment. Vaccination with live attenuated vaccines is, however, not recommended. The long half -life of leflunomide should be considered when contemplating administration of a live attenuated vaccine after stopping Arava. 
 Warfari n and other coumarine anticoagulants 
 There have been case reports of increased prothrombin time, when leflunomide and warfarin were co-administered. A pharmacodynamics interaction with warfarin was observed with A771726 in a clinical pharmacology study (see below). Therefore, when warfarin or another coumarin anticoagulant is co-administered, close international normalised ratio (INR) fo llow-up and monitoring is recommended.  
 NSAIDS/Corticosteroids  
 If the patient is already receiving nonsteroidal anti- inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and/or corticosteroids, these may be continued after starting leflunomide.  
 Effect of other medicinal products on leflunomide:  Cholestyramine or activated charcoal 
 8 It is recommended that patients receiving leflunomide are not treated with colestyramine or activated powdered charcoal because this leads to a rapid and significant decrease in plasma A771726 (the active metabolite of leflunomide; see also section  5) concentration. The mechanism is thought to be by interruption of enterohepatic recycling and/or gastrointestinal dialysis of A771726. 
 CYP450 inhibitors and inducers   
 In vitro  inhibition studies in human li ver microsomes suggest that cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, 2C19 and 3A4 are involved in leflunomide metabolism. An in vivo  interaction study with leflunomide and cimetidine (non- specific weak cytochrome P450 (CYP) inhibitor) has demonstrated a lack of a signif icant  impact on A771726 exposure. Following concomitant administration of a single dose of leflunomide to subjects receiving multiple doses of rifampicin (non- specific cytochrome P450 inducer) A771726 peak levels were increased by approximately 40%, wherea s the AUC was not significantly changed. The mechanism of this effect is unclear.  
 Effect of leflunomide on other medic inal products: 
 Oral contraceptives  
 In a study in which leflunomide was given concomitantly with a triphasic oral contraceptive pill containing 30 µg ethinyloestradiol to healthy female volunteers, there was no reduction in contraceptive activity of the pill, and A771726 pharmacokinetics were within predicted ranges. A pharmacokinetic interaction with oral contraceptives was observed with A771726 (see below). 
 The following pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interaction studies were conducted with A771726 (principal active metabolite of leflunomide). As similar drug -drug interactions cannot be excluded for leflunomide at recommended dose s, the following study results and recommendations should be considered in patients treated with leflunomide:   Effect on  repaglinide (CYP2C8 substrate)  There was an increase in mean repaglinide Cmax and AUC (1.7- and 2.4- fold, respectively), following repeated doses of A771726, suggesting that A771726 is an inhibitor of CYP2C8 in vivo . Therefore, monitoring patients with co ncomitant use of medicinal products metabolised by CYP2C8, such as repaglinide, paclitaxel, pioglitazone or rosiglitazone, is recommend ed as they may have higher exposure.  
 Effect on caffeine (CYP1A2 substrate)  Repeated doses of A771726 decreased mean Cmax and AUC of caffeine (CYP1A2 substrate) by 18% and 55%, respectively, suggesting that A771726 may be a weak inducer of CYP1A2 in vivo . Therefore, medicinal products metabolised by CYP1A2 (such as duloxetine, alosetron, theophylline and tizanidine) should be used with caution during treatment, as it could lead to the reduction of the efficacy of these products.  
 Effect on organic anion transporter 3 (OAT3) substrates There was an increase in mean cefaclor C max and AUC (1.43- and 1.54- fold, respectively), fol lowing repeated doses of A771726, suggesting that A771726 is an inhibitor of OAT3 in vivo . Therefore, when co-administered with substrates of OAT3, such as cefaclor, benzylpenicillin, ciprofloxacin, indomethacin, ketoprofen, furosemide, cimetidine, methotr exate, zidovudine, caution is recommended. 
 Effect on BCRP  (Breast Cancer Resistance Protein) and /or organic anion transporting polype ptide B1 and B3 (OATP1B1/B3) substrates There was an increase in mean rosuvastatin C max and AUC (2.65- and 2.51-fold, res pectively), following repeated doses of A771726. However, there was no apparent impact of this increase in plasma rosuvastatin exposure  on the HMG -Co 
 A reductase activity. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily. For other substrates of BCRP (e.g., methotrexate, 9 topotecan, sulfasalazine, daunorubicin, doxorubicin) and the OATP family especially HMG- Co 
 A  reductase inhibitors (e.g., simvastatin, atorvastatin, pravastatin, methotrexate, nateglinide, repaglinide, rifampicin) concomitant administration should also be undertaken with caution. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of excessi ve exposure to the medicinal products and reduction of the dose of these medicinal products should be considered.  Effect on oral contraceptive (0.03 mg ethinylestradiol and 0.15 mg levonorgestrel)  There was an increase in mean ethinylestradiol Cmax and AUC 0-24 (1.58- and 1.54-fold, respectively) and levonorgestrel C max and AUC 0-24 (1.33- and 1.41-fold, respectively) following repeated doses of A771726. While this interaction is not expected to adversely impact the efficacy of oral contraceptives, considera tion should be given to the type of oral contraceptive treatment.  
 Effect on warfarin  (CYP2C9 substrate) Repeated doses of A771726 had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of S- warfarin, indicating that A771726 is not an inhibitor or an inducer of CYP2C9. However, a 25% decrease in peak international normalised ratio (INR) was observed when A771726 was co- administered with wa rfarin as compared with warfarin alone. Therefore, when warfarin is co- administered, close INR follow -up and monitoring is recommended.  
