4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Lithium 
 Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant adminis tration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Rare cases have 7also been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including Tolucombi). Coadministration of lithium and Tolucombi is not recommended (see section 4.4). If this com bination proves essential, careful monitoring of serum lithium level is recommended during concomitant use.Medicinal products associated with potassium loss and hypokalaemia (e.g. other kaliuretic diuretics, laxatives, corticosteroids, ACTH, amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G sodium, salicylic acid and derivatives).If these substances are to be prescribed with the hydrochlorothiazide -telmisartan combination, monitorin g of potassium plasma levels is advised. These medicinal products may potentiate the effect of hydrochlor othiazide on serum potassium (see section 4.4).Medicinal products that may increase potassium levels or induce hyperkalaemia (e.g. ACE inhibitors, potassium -sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium, cyclosporine or other medicinal products such as heparin sodium) .If these medicinal products are to be prescribed with the hydrochlorothiazide -telmisartan combination , monitoring of potassium plasma levels is advised. Based on the experience with the use of other medicinal products that blunt the renin -angiotensin system, concomitant use of the above medicinal products may lead to increases in serum potassium and is, t herefore, not recommended (see section 
4.4).Medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
 Periodic monitoring of serum potassium and ECG is recommended when Tolucombi is administered with medicinal products affected by serum potassium distu rbances (e.g. digitalis glycosides, antiarrhythmics) and the following torsades de pointes inducing medicinal products (which include some antiarrhythmics), hypokalaemia being a predisposing factor to torsades de pointes.
- class Ia antiarrythmics (e.g. quin idine, hydroquinidine, disopyramide)
- class III antiarrythmics (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide)
- some antipsychotics (e.g. thioridazine, chlorpromazine, levomepromazine, trifluoperazine, cyamemazine, sulpiride, sultopride, amisulpride, tiapr ide, pimozide, haloperidol, droperidol)
- others (e.g. bepridil, cisapride, diphemanil, erythromycin IV, halofantrin, mizolastin, pentamidine, sparfloxacine, terfenadine, vincamine IV.)Digitalis glycosides 
 Thiazide -induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnesaemia f avours the onset of digitalis -induced arrhythmia (see section 4.4).Digoxin 
 When telmisartan was co -administered with digoxin, median increases in digoxin peak plasma concentration (49%) and in trough concentration (20%) were observed. When initiating, ad justing, and discontinuing telmisartan, monitor digoxin levels in order to maintain levels within the therapeutic range.Other antihypertensive agents 
 Telmisartan may increase the hypotensive effect of other antihypertensive agents.Clinical trial data h as shown that dual blockade of the renin -angiotensin -aldosterone -system (RAAS) through the combined use of ACE -inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalae mia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS -acting agent (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).Antidiabetic medicinal products (oral agents and insulin)Dose adjustment of the antidiabetic medicinal products may be required (see section 4.4).Metformin 
 Metformin should be used with precaution: risk of lactic acidosis induced by a possible functional renal failure linked to hydrochlorothiazide.8Cholestyramine and colestipol resins 
 Absorption of hydro chlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins.Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs)NSAIDs (i.e. acetylsalicylic acid at anti -inflammatory dosage regimens, COX -2 inhibitors and non -selective NSAIDs) may reduc e the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics and the antihypertensive effects of angiotensin II receptor antagonists.In some patients with compromised renal function (e.g. dehydrated patients or elderly patients with comp romised renal function) the co -administration of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and agents that inhibit cyclo -oxygenase may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, which is usually reversible. Therefo re the combination should be administered with caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and consideration should be given to monitoring of renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy and periodically thereafter.In one study the co -administration of telmisartan and ramipril led to an increase of up to 2.5 fold in the AUC 0-24 and C max of ram ipril and ramiprilat. The clinical relevance of this observation is not known.Pressor amines (e.g. noradrenaline)The effect of pressor amines may be decreased.Nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine)The effect of nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants may be potentiated by hydrochlorothiazide.Medicinal products used in the treatment for gout (e.g . probenecid, sulfinpyrazone and allopurinol)Dosage adjustment of uricosuric medicinal products may be necessary as hydrochlorothiazide may raise the level of serum uric acid. Increase in dosage of probenecid or sulfinpyrazone may be necessary. Co -administration of thiazide may increase the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions of allopurinol.Calcium salts 
 Thiazide diuretics may increase serum calcium levels due to the decreased excretion. If calcium supplements or calcium sparing medicinal products (e .g. vitamin D therapy) must be prescribed, serum calcium levels should be monitored and calcium dosage adjusted accordingly.Beta-blockers and diazoxide 
 The hyperglycaemic effect of beta -blockers and diazoxide may be enhanced by thiazides.Anticholinergic agents (e.g. atropine, biperiden) may increase the bioavailability of thiazide -type diuretics by decreasing gastrointestinal motility and stomach emptying rate.Ama ntadine 
 Thiazides may increase the risk of adverse reactions caused by aman tadine.Cytotoxic agents (e.g. cyclophosphamide, methotrexate)Thiazides may reduce the renal excretion of cytotoxic medicinal products and potentiate their myelosuppressive effects.Based on their pharmacological properties it can be expected that the f ollowing medicinal products may potentiate the hypotensive effects of all antihypertensives including telmisartan: Baclofen, amifostine.Furthermore, orthostatic hypotension may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics or antidepressants.
