4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and o ther forms of i nteraction  
 Effect of other medicinal products on tecovirimat  
 Tecovirimat is a substrate of UGT1A1, 1A3 and 1A4.  Co-administration of tecovirimat with strong inhibitors or inducers of these UGTs is not expected to have a clinically important effect on tecovirimat exposures.  
 Effect of tecovirimat on other medicinal products  
 Tecovirimat and its M4 metabolite are inducers of cytochrome P450 (CYP)3A and CYP2B6.  Co-administration with tecovirimat may lead to reduced plasma exposures of sensitive substrates of CYP3A4 or CYP2B6, potentially leading to reduced effects.  Monitoring is advised during co-administration of tecovirimat with CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 substrates that have narrow therapeutic windows.  See Table 2  for some examples.  
 Tecovirimat is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8 and CYP2C19.  Co-administration with tecovirimat may lead to increased plasma exposures of sensitive substrates of CYP2C8 or CYP2C19, potentially leading to increased adverse effects.   Monitoring is advised during co-administration of tecovirimat 5 with CYP2C8 and CYP2C19 substrates that have narrow therapeutic windows.  See Table 2  for some examples.  
 Table 2: Interactions and dose recommendations with other medicinal products  
 Medicinal Product by therapeutic areaa Effect on medicinal product levels.  Mean percent change in AUC, C max Recommendation  concerning co -administration with Tecovirimat  Antidepressant:  Bupropiona (150 mg) Decreased Bupropion  AUC: ↓  15%  Cmax:  ↓  14%  No dose adjustment is required.  The effectiveness of bupropion should be monitored.  Antidiabetics : Repaglinidea (2 mg) Repaglinide : AUC:  ↑ 27%  Cmax:  ↑ 27%  Tecovirimat is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8 and caused an  increase in repaglinide plasma concentrations.  
 Co-administration of repaglinide and tecovirimat may cause mild to moderate hypoglycemia.  Blood  glucose and hypoglycemic symptoms should be monitored in patients when t ecovirimat is  co-administered with repaglinide.  Antifungals  Voriconazole  Interactions not studied  Expected  AUC: ↑  Cmax:  ↑ A risk for increase in voriconazole plasma concentrations cannot be excluded (CYP2C19 substrate).  
 The combination of tecovirimat and voriconazole should be used with caution.  Antiviral - non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor  Rilpivirine  Interactions not studied  Expected  AUC: ↓  Cmax:  ↓   A risk for decreases in rilpivirine plasma concentrations cannot be excluded (CYP3A4  substrate).  
 The combination of tecovirimat and rilpivirine should be used with caution.  CCR5 antagonists  Maraviroc  Interactions not studied  Expected  AUC: ↓  Cmax:  ↓   A risk for decreases in maraviroc plasma concentrations cannot be excluded (CYP3A4  substrate).  
 The combination of tecovirimat and maraviroc should be used with caution.  CNS Depressant:  Midazolama (2 mg) Midazolam:  AUC: ↓ 32%  Cmax:  ↓ 39%  Tecovirimat is a weak inducer of CYP3A4 and caused a decrease in plasma concentrations of midazolam.  
 The effectiveness of midazolam should be monitored and the dose adjusted as necessary.  HMG CO -A Reductase Inhibitors  Atorvastatin  Interactions not studied  Expected  AUC: ↓  Cmax:  ↓   A risk for decreases in atorvastatin plasma concentrations cannot be excluded (CYP3A4 substrate).  
 The combination of tecovirimat and atorvastatin should be used with caution.  
 6 Immunosuppressants  Tacrolimus  Interactions not studied  Expected  AUC: ↓  Cmax:  ↓   A risk for decreases in tacrolimus plasma concentrations cannot be excluded (CYP3A4 substrate).  
 The combination of tecovirimat and tacrolimus should be used with caution.  Narcotic Analgesics  Methadone  Interactions not studied  Expected  AUC: ↓  Cmax:  ↓   A risk for decreases in methadone plasma concentrations cannot be excluded (CYP2B6 substrate).  
 The combination of tecovirimat and methadone should be used with caution.  Nonsteoidal anti -inflammatory  Flurbiprofena (50 mg) Flurbiprofen:  AUC: ↔ Cmax:  ↔ No dose adjustment is required.  PHOSPHODIESTERASE TYPE 5 (PDE -5) INHIBITORS  Sildenafil  Tadalafil  Vardenafil  Interactions not studied  Expected  AUC: ↓  Cmax:  ↓   A risk for decreases in PDE -5 inhibitor plasma concentrations cannot be excluded (CYP3A4 substrate).  
 The combination of tecovirimat and PDE -5 inhibitors should be used with caution.  Protease inhibitors (PIs)  Darunavir  Interactions not studied  Expected  AUC: ↓  Cmax:  ↓   A risk for decreases in darunavir plasma concentrations cannot be excluded (CYP3A4 substrate).  
 The combination of tecovirimat and darunavir should be used with caution.  Proton Pump Inhibitors : Omeprazolea (20 mg) Omeprazole  AUC: ↑ 73% Cmax:  ↑ 83% Tecovirimat is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C19  and caused an increase in plasma concentrations of omeprazole . 
 The combination of tecovirimat and proton pump inhibitors should be used with caution.  Lansoprazole  Rabeprazole  Interactions not studied  Expected  AUC: ↑  Cmax:  ↑  a 
 These interactions have been studied in healthy adults  to evaluate the effect of repeated doses of tecovirimat 
600 mg twice daily on the single -dose PK of probe substrates . 
 Vaccine  
 No vaccine-drug interaction studies have been performed in human subjects.  Some animal studies have indicated that co -administration of tecovirimat at the same time as live smallpox vaccine (vaccinia virus) may reduce the immune response to the vaccine.   
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 7 