4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Pharmacokinetic interactions of other substances on teriflunomide 
 The primary biotransformation pathway for teriflunomide is hydrolysis, with oxidation being a minor pathway. 
 Potent cytochrome P450 ( CYP) and transporter inducers  Co-administration of repeated doses (600 mg once daily for 22 days) of rifampicin  (a CYP2B6, 2C8, 
2C9, 2C19, 3A inducer) , as well as an inducer of the efflux transporters P -glycoprotein [P-gp] and breast cancer resistant protein [BCRP ] with  teriflunomide (70 mg single dose) resulted in an 8 approximately 40% decrease in teriflunomide exposure. Rifamp icin and other known potent CYP and transporter inducers such as carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin and St John’s Wort should be used with caution during the treatment with teriflunomide. 
 Cholestyramine or activated charcoal It is recommended that patients receiving teriflunomide are not treated with cholestyramine or activated charcoal because this leads to a rapid and significant decrease in plasma concentration unless an accelerated elimination is desired. The mechanism is thought to be by interruption of enterohepatic recycling and/or gastrointestinal dialysis of teriflunomide . 
 Pharmacokinetic interactions of teriflunomide on other substances  
 Effect of teriflunomide on CYP2C8 substrate: repaglinide There was an increase in mean repaglinide C max and AUC (1.7- and 2.4- fold, respectively), following repeated doses of teriflunomide, suggesting that teriflunomide is an inhibitor of CYP2C8 in vivo . Therefore, medicinal products metabolised by CYP2C8, such as repaglinide, paclitaxel, pioglitazone or ro siglitazone, should be used with caution during treatment with teriflunomide.  
 Effect of teriflunomide on oral contraceptives: 0.03 mg ethinylestradiol and 0.15 mg levonorgestrel  There was an increase in mean ethinylestradiol Cmax and AUC 0-24 (1.58- and 1.54-fold, respectively) and levonorgestrel C max and AUC 0-24 (1.33- and 1.41-fold, respectively) following repeated doses of teriflunomide. While this interaction of teriflunomide is not expected to adversely impact the efficacy of oral contraceptives, it sh ould be considered when selecting or adjusting oral contraceptive  treatment  used in combination with teriflunomide.   Effect of teriflunomide on CYP1A2 substrate: caffeine  Repeated doses of teriflunomide decreased mean Cmax and AUC of caffeine (CYP1A2 subs trate) by 
18% and 55%, respectively, suggesting that teriflunomide may be a weak inducer of CYP1A2 in vivo . Therefore, medicinal products metabolised by CYP1A2 (such as duloxetine , alosetron, theophylline and tizanidine) should be used with caution during treatment with teriflunomide, as it could lead to the reduction of the  efficacy of these medicinal products. 
 Effect of teriflunomide on warfarin  Repeated doses of teriflunomide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of S -warfarin, indicating that teriflunomide is not an inhibitor or an inducer of CYP2C9. However, a 25% decrease in peak international normalised ratio (INR) was observed when teriflunomide was coadministered with warfarin as compared with warfarin alone. Therefore, when warfarin is co -administered with teriflunomide, close INR follow -up and monitoring is recommended.  
 Effect of teriflunomide on organic anion transporter 3 (OAT3) substrates   There was an increase in mean cefaclor Cmax and AUC (1.43- and 1.54- fold, respectively), followi ng repeated doses of teriflunomide, suggesting that teriflunomide is an inhibitor of OAT3 in vivo . Therefore, when teriflunomide is coadministered with substrates of OAT3, such as cefaclor, benzylpenicillin,  ciprofloxacin, indometacin, ketoprofen, furosemi de, cimetidine, methotrexate, zidovudine, caution is recommended. 
 Effect of teriflunomide on BCRP and /or organic anion transporting polypeptide B1 and B3 (OATP1B1/B3) substrates  There was an increase in mean rosuvastatin Cmax and AUC (2.65- and 2.51-fol d, respectively), following repeated doses of teriflunomide. However, there was no apparent impact of this increase in plasma rosuvastatin exposure on the HMG -Co 
 A reductase activity. For rosuvastatin, a dose reduction by 50% is recommended for coadministra tion with teriflunomide. For other substrates of BCRP (e.g., methotrexate, topotecan, sulfasalazine, daunorubicin, doxorubicin) and the OATP family especially HMG-Co reductase inhibitors (e.g., simvastatin, atorvastatin , pravastatin, methotrexate, nateglinide, repaglinide, rifampicin) concomitant administration of teriflunomide should also be undertaken with caution. P atients should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of excessive exposure to the medicinal product s and reduction of the dose of these medicinal products should be considered. 9  
