4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interactions common to the combination  
 No interaction studies have been performed . 
 To be taken into account with concomitant use  
 Other antihypertensive agents  
 Commonly used antihypertensive agents (e.g. alpha blockers, diuretics) and other medicinal  products which may cause hypotensive adverse reaction (e.g. tricyclic antidepressants, alpha blockers for treatment of benign prostate hyperplasia) may increase the antihypertensive effect of the combination.  
 Interactions linked to amlodipine  
 Concomitant use not recommended  
 Grapefruit or grapefruit juice  Administration of amlodipine with grapefruit or grapefruit juice is not recommended as bioavailability may be increased in some patients, resulting in increased blood pressure lowering effec ts.  
 Caution required with concomitant use  
 CYP3A4 inhibitors  Concomitant use of amlodipine with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (protease inhibitors, azole antifungals, macrolides like erythromycin  or clarithromycin , verapamil or diltiazem) may gi ve rise to significant increase in amlodipine exposure. The clinical translation of these pharmacokinetic variations may be more pronounced in the elderly. Clinical monitoring and dose adjustment may thus be required.  
 CYP3A4 inducers (anticonvulsant agen ts [e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, fosphenytoin, primidone], rifampicin, Hypericum perforatum)  Upon co -administration of known inducers of the CYP3A4, the plasma concentration of amlodipine  may vary. Therefore, blood pressure should be moni tored and dose regulation considered both  during and after concomitant medic inal product  particularly with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g.  rifampicin, hypericum perforatum).  
 Simvastatin  Co-administration of multiple doses of 10  mg amlodipine with 80  mg simv astatin resulted in a 77  % increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone. It is recommended to limit the dose of simvastatin to 20  mg daily in patients on amlodipine.  
 Dantrolene (infusion)  In animals, lethal ventricular fibrillation and cardiovascular collapse are observed in association with hyperkalaemia after administration of verapamil and intravenous dantrolene. Due to risk of hyperkalaemia, it is recommended that the co -administration of calcium channel blockers such as amlodipine be avoided in patients susceptible to malignant hyperthermia and in the management of malignant hyperthermia.  
  
7 To be taken into account with concomitant use  
 Others  In clinical interaction studies, amlodipi ne did not affect the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin, digoxin, warfarin or ciclosporin.  
 Interactions linked to valsartan  
 Concomitant use not recommended  
 Lithium  Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported d uring concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan. Therefore, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended during concomitant use. If a diurect ic is also used, the risk of lithium toxicity may presumably be increased further with amlodipine/ valsartan.  
 Potassium -sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium and other substances that may increase potassium levels   If a medicinal product that affects potassium levels is to be prescribed in combination with valsartan, monitoring of potassium plasma levels is advised.  
 Caution required with concomitant use  
 Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drug  (NSAIDs), including selective COX -2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (>3  g/day), and non -selective NSAIDs  When angiotensin II antagonists are administered simultaneously with NSAIDs attenuation of the antihypertensive effect may occur. Furthermore, concomitant use of angiotensin II antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an increased risk of worsening of renal function and an increase in serum potassium. Therefore, monitoring of renal function at the beginning of the treatme nt is recommended, as well as adequate hydration of the patient.  
 Inhibitors of the uptake transporter (rifampicin, ciclosporin) or efflux transporter (ritonavir)  The results of an in vitro  study with human liver tissue indicate that valsartan is a subst rate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and of the hepatic efflux transporter MRP2. Co -administration of inhibitors of the uptake transporter (rifampicin, ciclosporin) or efflux transporter (ritonavir) may increase the systemic exposure to valsartan .  
 Dual blockade of the RAAS with ARBs, ACE inhibitors or aliskiren  Clinical trial data have shown that dual blockade of the RAAS through the combined use of ACE inhibitors, ARBs or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such a s hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS -acting agent (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).  
 Others  In monotherapy with valsartan, no interactions of clinical significance have been found with the following substances: cimetidine, warfarin, furosemide, digoxin, atenolol, indometacin, hydrochlorothiazide, amlodipine, glibenclamide.  
 
