4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
4 
  Lacosamide shou ld be used with caution in patients treated with medicinal products known to be associated with PR prolongation ( including sodium channel blocking antiepileptic  medicinal products ) and in patients treated with antiarrhythmic s. However, subgroup analysis  in clinical studies  did not identify an increased magnitude of PR prolongation in patients with concomitant administration of carbamazepine or lamotrigine.  
 In vitro  data 
 Data generally suggest that lacosamide has a low interaction potential. In vitro  studies indicate that the enzymes CYP1A2, CYP 2B6, and CYP 2C9 are not induced and that CYP1A1, CYP 1A2, CYP 2A6, CYP 2B6, CYP 2C8, CYP 2C9, CYP  2D6, and CYP 2E1 are not inhibited by lacosamide at plasma concentrations observed in clinical studies . An in vitro  study indicated that lacosamide is not transported by P -glycoprotein in the intestine . In vitro  data show that CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 are capable of catalysing the formation of the O -desmethyl metabolite.  
 In vivo  data 
 Lacosamide  does not inhibit or induce CYP2C19 and CYP 3A4 to a clinically relevant extent. Lacosamide did not affect the AUC of midazolam (metabolised by CYP3A4, lacosamide given 200 mg twice a day ), but C max of midazolam was slightly increased (30  %). Lacosamide did  not affect the pharmacokinetics of omeprazole (metabolised by CYP2C19 and CYP 3A4, lacosamide given 300 mg twice a day ).  The CYP2C19 inhibitor omeprazole (40 mg once daily ) did not give rise to a clinically significant change in lacosamide exposure.  Thus , moderate i nhibitors of CYP2C19 are unlikely to affect systemic lacosamide exposure to a clinically relevant extent.   Caution is recommended in concomitant treatment with strong inhibitors of CYP2C9 (e.g.  fluconazole) and CYP3A4 (e.g.  itraconazole, ketoconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin), which may lead to increased systemic exposure of lacosamide. Such interactions have not been established in vivo , but are possible based on in vitro  data.  
 Strong enzyme inducers such as rifampicin o r St John ’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) may moderately reduce the systemic exposure of lacosamide. Therefore, starting or ending treatment with these enzyme inducers should be done with caution.  
 Antiepileptic  medicinal products   
 In interaction studies  lacosamide did not significantly affect the plasma concentrations of carbamazepine and valproic acid. Lacosamide plasma concentrations were not affected by carbamazepine and by valproic acid. Population pharmacokinetic  analyses in different age groups  estimated that concomitant treatment with other antiepileptic medicinal products  known to be enzyme inducers (carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, in various doses) decreased the overall systemic exposure of lacosamide by 25  % in adults and 17  % in paediat ric patients .  
 Oral contraceptives  
 In an interaction study  there was no clinically relevant interaction between lacosamide and the oral contraceptives ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel. Progesterone concentrations were not affected when the medicinal products were co -administered.  
 Others  
 Interaction studies  showed that lacosamide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. There was no clinically relevant interaction between lacosamide and metformin.  Co-administration of warfarin with lacosami de does not result in a clinically relevant change in the  pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of warfarin.   
5 
 Although no pharmacokinetic data on the interaction of lacosamide with alcohol are available, a pharmacodynamic effect cannot be excluded.  Lacosami de has a low protein binding of less than 15  %. Therefore, clinically relevant interactions with other medicinal products  through competition for protein binding sites are considered unlikely.  
 
