4.5 Interaction with other medicinal produ cts and other forms of interaction   
 Effect of o ther a gents on the pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir  
 All factors that decrease dolutegravir exposure should be avoided in the presence of integrase class resistance.  
 Dolutegravir is eliminated mainly through metabolism by UGT1A1. Dolutegravir is also a substrate of UGT1A3, UGT1A9, CYP3A4, Pgp, and BCRP; therefore medicinal products  that induce those enzymes may decrease dolutegr avir plasma concentration and reduce the therapeutic effect of dolutegravir  (see Table 3). Co-administration of dolutegravir and other medicinal products that inhibit these enzymes may increase dolutegravir plasma concentration (see Table 3).  
 The absorpti on of dolutegravir is reduced by certain anti -acid agents ( see Table 3 ). 
 Effect of dolutegravir on the pharmacokinetics of other a gents  
 In vivo , dolutegravir did not  have an effect on midazolam, a CYP3A4 probe.  Based on in  vivo and/or in vitro  data, dolutegravir is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of medicinal products  that are substrates of any major enzyme or transporter  such as CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and P -gp (for more information see section 5.2) .   
 In vitro , dolutegravir inhibited the renal organic cation transporter 2 (OCT2)  and multidrug and toxin extrusion transporter (MATE) 1. In vivo , a 10-14% decrease of creatinine clearance ( secretory fraction  is dependent on OCT2 and MATE -1 transport ) was observed in patients . In vivo , dolutegravir may increase plasma concentrations of medicinal products  in which excretion is dependent upon OCT2 and/or MATE -1 (e.g. fampridine [also known as dalfampridine], metform in) (see Table 3).  
 In vitro , dolutegravir inhibited the renal  uptake transporter s, organic anion transporters  (OAT1) and OAT3.  Based on the lack of effect on the in vivo  pharmacokinetics of the OAT substrate tenofovir , in vivo  inhibition 7 of OAT1 is unlikely. Inhibition of OAT3 has not been studied in vivo . Dolutegravir may increase plasma concentrations of medic inal products in which excretion is dependent upon OAT3.    
 Established and theoretical interactions with selected antiretrovirals and non- antiretroviral me dicinal products are listed in T able 3. 
 Interaction table  Interactions between dolutegravir and co- administered medicinal products are listed in T able 3 (increase is indicated as “↑”, de crease as “↓”, no change as “↔”, area under the concentration versus time curve as 
“AUC ”, maximum observed concentration as “Cmax ”, concentration at end of dosing interval  as “Cτ”). 
 Table 3 : Drug Interactions Medicinal products by therapeutic area s Interaction  Geometric mean change (%)  Recommendations concerning co-administration  HIV -1 Antiviral Agents  Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors  Etravirine  without boosted protease inhibitors  Dolutegravir  ↓ 
   AUC ↓  71%  
   C max ↓ 52%  
   Cτ ↓ 88%  
 Etravirine ↔  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  Etravirine without boosted protease inhibitors  decreased plasma dolutegravir concentration. The recommended adult dose of dolutegravir  is 50 mg twice daily when co -administered with etravirine without boosted protease inhibitors . In paediatric patients the weight -based  once daily dose should be administered  twice daily.  Dolutegravir  should not be used with etravirine without co-administration of a tazanavir/ ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir or lopinavir/ritonavir  in INI-resistant patients  (see further below in table) . Lopinavir/ritonavir + etravirine  Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑ 11% 
   C max ↑ 7% 
   Cτ ↑ 28% LPV ↔  RTV ↔ No dose adjustment is necessary.  Darunavir/ritonavir + etravirine  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓ 25%  
   C max ↓ 12%  
   Cτ ↓ 36% DRV ↔  RTV ↔ No dose adjustment is necessary.  Efavirenz  Dolutegravir  ↓ 
   AUC ↓  57%  
   C max ↓ 39%  
   Cτ ↓ 75%  
 Efavirenz ↔  (historical controls)  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  The recommended adult dose of dolutegravir  is 
50 mg twice daily when co- administered with efavirenz. In paediatric patients the weight -based  once daily dose should be administered  twice daily.   In the presence of integrase class resistance alternative combinations that do not include efavirenz should be considered (see section 4.4) . Nevirapine  Dolutegravir  ↓ (Not studied , a similar reduction in exposure as observed with efavirenz is expected , due to induction ) The recommended adult dose of dolutegravir  is 
50 mg twice daily when co- administered with nevirapine . In paediatric patients the weight -based  once daily dose should be administered  twice daily.   8 In the presence of integrase cla ss resistance alternative combinations that do not include nevirapine should be considered (see section 4.4) . Rilpivirine  Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑  12%  
   C max ↑ 13%  
   Cτ ↑ 22%  Rilpivirine ↔ No dose adjustment is necessary.  Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors  Tenofovir  Dolutegravir ↔ 
   AUC ↑  1% 
   C max ↓ 3% 
   Cτ  ↓ 8% Tenofovir ↔ No dose adjustment is necessary.  Protease Inhibitors  Atazanavir  Dolutegravir  ↑ 
   AUC ↑  91%  
   C max ↑ 50% 
   Cτ ↑ 180%  
 Atazanavir ↔  (historical controls)  (inhibition  of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  No dose adjustment is necessary.  
 Tivicay should not be dosed higher than 50 mg twice daily in combination with atazanavir (see section  5.2) due to lack of data.  Atazanavir/ritonavir  Dolutegravir  ↑ 
   AUC ↑  62%  
   C max ↑ 34% 
   Cτ ↑ 121%  
 Atazanavir ↔  Ritonavir ↔  (inhibition of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  No dose adjustment is necessary.  
 Tivicay should not be dosed higher than 50 mg twice daily in combination with atazanavir (see section  5.2) due to lack of data.  Tipranavir/ritonavir (TPV+RTV)  Dolutegravir  ↓ 
   AUC ↓  59%  
   C max ↓ 47%  
   Cτ ↓ 76%  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  The recommended adult dose of dolutegravir  is 
50 mg twice daily when co- administered with tipranavir/ritonavir. In paediatric patients the weight -based  once daily dose should be administered  twice daily.   In the presence of integrase class resistance this combination should be avoided (see section  4.4). Fosamprenavir/ ritonavir (FPV+RTV)  Dolutegravir  ↓ 
   AUC ↓  35%  
   C max ↓ 24%  
   Cτ ↓ 49%  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  No dose adjustment is necessary in the absence of integrase class resistance.   In the presence of integrase class  resistance alternative combinations that do not include fosamprenavir/ritonavir should be considered.  Darunavir/ritonavir  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  22%  
   C max ↓ 11%  
   C 24 ↓ 38%  (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  No dose adjustment is necessary.  Lopinavir /ritonavir  Dolutegravir  ↔ 
   AUC ↓  4%  
   Cmax ↔ 0% No dose adjustment is necessary.  9    C24 ↓ 6% Other Antiviral agents  Daclatasvir  Dolutegravir  ↔ 
   AUC ↑  33%  
   C max ↑ 29% 
   Cτ ↑ 45% Daclatasvir  ↔ Daclatasvir did not change dolutegravir plasma concentration to a clinically relevant extent.  Dolutegravir did not change daclatasvir plasma concentration.  No dose adjustment is necessary.  Other agents  Potassium channel blocker  Fampridine (also known as dalfampridine)  Fampridine ↑ Co-administration of dolutegravir has the potential to cause seizures due to increased fampridine plasma concentration via inhibition of OCT2 transporter; co -administration has not been studied. Fampridine co -administration with  dolutegravir is contraindicated.  Anticonvulsants  Carbamazepine  
 Dolutegravir  ↓ 
   AUC ↓  49%  
   C max ↓ 33%  
   Cτ ↓ 73%  
 The recommended adult dose of dolutegravir  is 50 mg twice daily when co -administered with carbamazepine. In paediatric patients the weight -based  once daily dose should be administered  twice daily.  Alternatives to carbamazepine should be used where possible for INI resistant patients.  Oxcarbazepin e Phenytoin  Phenobarbital  
 Dolutegravir  ↓ (Not studied , decrease expected due to induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes, a similar reduction in exposure as observed with c arbamazepine  is expected ) The recommended adult dose of dolutegravir  is 50 mg twice daily when co -administered with these metabolic inducers.  In paediatric patients the weight -based  once daily dose should be administered  twice daily.  Alternative combinations that do not include these metabolic inducers should be used where possible  in INI -resistant patients.   Azole anti -fungal agents  Ketoconazole  Fluconazole  Itraconazole  Posaconazole  Voriconazole  Dolutegravir  ↔ (Not studied)  No dose adjustment is necessary.   Based on data from other CYP3A4  inhibitors, a  marked increase is not expected.   Herbal  products  St. John’s wort  Dolutegravir  ↓ (Not studied, decrease expected due to induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes, a similar reduction in exposure as observed with c arbamazepine  is expected ) The recommended adult dose of dolutegravir  is 50 mg twice daily when co -administered with  St. John’s wort . In paediatric patients the weight -based  once daily dose should be administered  twice daily.  Alternative combinations that do not include St. John’s wort  should be used where possible in INI -resistant patients.  Antacids  and supplements  Magnesium/  aluminium- containing antacid  Dolutegravir  ↓ 
   AUC ↓  74%  
   C max ↓ 72%  (Complex binding to polyvalent ions)  Magnesium/ aluminium -containing antacid should be taken well separated in time from the administration of dolutegravir (minimum 2 hours after or 6 hours before).  Calcium supplements  Dolutegravir  ↓ 
   AUC ↓  39%  
   C max ↓ 37% 
   C24 ↓ 39% Calcium  supplements, iron supplements or multivitamins  should be taken well separated in time from the administration of dolutegravir (minimum 2 hours after or 6 hours before).   10 (Complex binding to polyvalent ions)  Iron supplements  Dolutegravir  ↓ 
   AUC ↓  54%  
   C max ↓ 57% 
   C 24 ↓ 56% (Complex binding to polyvalent ions)  Multivitamin  Dolutegravir ↓ 
   AUC ↓  33%  
   C max ↓ 35%  
   C 24 ↓ 32%  (Complex binding to polyvalent ions)  Corticosteroids  Prednisone  Dolutegravir  ↔ 
   AUC ↑  11%  
   C max ↑ 6% 
   Cτ ↑ 17% No dose adjustment is necessary . Antidiabetics  Metformin  Metformin  ↑ When co -administered with dolutegravir 50mg once daily:  Metformin  
   AUC ↑  79%  
   C max ↑ 66% When co -administered with dolutegravir 50mg twice daily:  Metformin  
   AUC ↑  145 %  
   Cmax ↑ 111% A dose adjustment of metformin should be considered when starting and stopping coadministration of dolutegravir with metformin, to maintain glycaemic control. In patient s with moderate renal impairment a dose adjustment of metformin should be considered when coadministered with dolutegravir , beca use of the increased risk for lactic acidosis in patients with moderate renal impairment due to increased metformin concentration (section 4.4).  Antimycobacterials  Rifampicin  Dolutegravir  ↓ 
   AUC ↓  54%  
   C max ↓ 43%  
   Cτ ↓72% (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  The recommended adult dose of dolutegravir  is 
50 mg twice daily when co- administered with rifampicin  in the absence of integrase class resistance. In paediatric patients the weight -based  once daily dose should be administered  twice daily .   In the presence of integrase class  resistance this combination should be avoided (see section 4.4) . Rifabutin  Dolutegravir  ↔ 
   AUC ↓  5% 
   C max ↑ 16% 
   Cτ ↓ 30% (induction of UGT1A1 and CYP3A enzymes)  No dose adjustment is necessary . Oral contraceptives  Ethinyl estradiol (EE) and Nor elgestromin (NGMN)  Dolutegravir ↔ EE ↔  
   AUC ↑  3%  
   C max ↓ 1% 
 Dolutegravir had no pharmacodynamic effect on Luteinizing Hormone (LH), Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) and progesterone . No dose adjustment of oral contraceptives is necessary when co -administered with dolutegravir .  11 NGMN ↔ 
   AUC ↓  2%  
   Cmax ↓ 11% Analgesics  Methadone  Dolutegravir  ↔ Methadone ↔  
   AUC ↓  2%  
   C max ↔ 0% 
   Cτ ↓ 1% No dose adjustment is necessary of either agent . 
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have  only been performed in adults.  
 
