4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Antineoplastic, immune -modulating or immunosuppressive therapies  
 Siponimod has not been studied in combination with antineoplastic, immune -modulating or immunosuppressive therapies. Caution should be exercised  during concomitant administration due to the risk of additive immune effects during such therapy and in the weeks after administration of any of these medicinal products is stopped (see section  4.4). 
 Due to the characteristics and duration of alemtuzumab immune suppressive effects described in its produc t information, initiating treatment with siponimod after alemtuzmab is not recommended unless the benefits of treatment clearly outweigh the risks for the individual patient (see section  4.4). 
 Anti-arrhythmic medicinal products , QT-prolonging medicinal products , medicinal products  that may decrease heart rate  
 During treatment initiation siponimod should not be concomitantly used in patients receiving class Ia (e.g. quinidine, procainamide) or class III (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol)  anti-arrhythmic medicinal products , QT-prolonging medicinal products  with known arrhythmogenic properties, heart -rate-lowering calcium channel blockers (such as verapamil or diltiazem) or other substances that may decrease heart rate (e.g. ivabradine or digoxin) because of the potential additive effects on heart rate (see section  4.4). No data are available for concomitant use of these medicinal products with siponimod . Concomitant use of these substances during treatment initiation may be associated with severe bradycardia and heart block. Because of the potential additive effect on heart rate, treatment with siponimod should generally not be initiated in patients who are concurrently treated with these substances (see section  4.4). If treatment with siponimod is considered, advice from a cardiologist should be sought  regarding the switch  to non -heart -rate-lowering medicinal products or appropriate monitoring for treatment initiation . 
 Beta blockers  
 Caution should be exercised when siponimod is initiated in patients receiving beta  blockers due to the additive effects on lowering heart rate (see section  4.4). Beta -blocker treatment can be initiated in patients receiving stable doses of siponimod . 
 11 The negative chronotropic effect of co -administration of siponimod and propranolol was evaluated in a dedicated pharmacodynamic /safety study. The addition of propranolol on top of siponimod pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  steady  state had less pronounced negative chronotropic effects (less than additive) in comparison to addition of siponimod on top of propranolol pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic steady state (additive HR effect).  
 Vaccination  
 The use of live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during siponimod treatment and for up to 4  weeks after treatment (see section  4.4). 
 During and for up to 4  weeks after treatment with siponimod vaccinations may be less effective. The efficacy of vaccination is not considered to be compromised if siponimod treatment is paused 1  week prior to vaccination until 4  weeks after vaccination. In a dedicated phase  I healthy volunteer study, concomitant siponimod treatment with influenza vaccines or shorter treatment pause (from 10  days prior to 14  days after vaccination) showed inferior responder rates (approximately 15% to 30% lower) compared to placebo , while the efficacy of a PPV 23 vaccination was not compromised by concomitant siponimod treatment (see section  4.4). 
 Potential of other medicinal products to affect siponimod pharmacokinetics  
 Siponimod is metabolised primarily by cytochrome P450  2C9 ( CYP2C9 ) (79.3%)  and to a lesser extent by  cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) (18.5%). CYP2C9 is a polymorphic enzyme and the drug-drug interaction (DDI) effect in the presence of CYP3A or CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers  is predicted to be dependent on the CYP2C9 genotype.  
 CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 inhibitors  Because of a significant increase in exposure to siponimod, concomitant use of siponimod and medicinal products that cause moderate CYP2C9 and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibition is not recommended. This concomitant drug regimen can consist of a moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A4 dual inhibitor (e.g. fluconazole) or a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor in combination with a separate moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor.  
 The co -administration o f fluconazole (moderate CYP2C9/CYP3A4  dual inhibitor) 200  mg daily at steady state and a single dose of siponimod 4  mg in healthy volunteers with a CYP2C9*1*1 genotype led to a 2 -fold increase in the area under the curve ( AUC ) of siponimod. A ccording to  evaluation of the drug interaction potential  using physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modelling , a maximum of a 2-fold increase in the AUC of siponimod is predicted across genotypes with any type of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inhibitors except for patients with a CYP2C9*2*2 genotype. In CYP2C9*2*2 patients, a 2.7 -fold increase in the AUC of siponimod is expected in the presence of moderate CYP2C9 /CYP3A4 inhibitors.  
 CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 inducers  Siponimod may be combined with most types of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 inducers. However, because of an expected reduction in siponimod exposure, the appropriateness and possible benefit of the treatment should be considered when siponimod is combined:  
- with strong CYP3A4/moderate CYP2C9 dual inducers (e.g. carbamazepine) or a moderate CYP2C9 inducer in combination with a separate strong CYP3A4 inducer in all patients regardless of genotype.  
- with moderate CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. modafinil)  or strong CYP3A4 inducers  in patients with a CYP2C9*1*3 or *2*3 genotype.  
 A significant reduction of siponimod exposure (by up to 76% and 51%, respectively) is expected under these conditions according to  evaluation of the drug interaction potential using PBPK modelling . The co -administration of siponimod 2  mg daily in the presence of 600  mg daily doses of rifampin (strong CYP3A4 and moderate CYP2C9 inducer) decreased siponimod AUC tau,ss and C max,ss by 57% and 45%, respectively, in CY2C9*1*1 subjects . 12  Oral contraceptives  
 Co-administration with siponimod did not reveal clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics  and pharmacodynamics  of the combined ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel oral contraceptive. Therefore the efficacy of the investigated oral contraceptive was maintained under siponimod treatment . 
 No interaction studies have been performed with oral contraceptives containing other progestagens, however an effect of siponimod on the efficacy of oral contraceptives is not expected.  
 
