4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Medicinal product -Food Int eraction  Oral bio availability of ibandronic acid is generally reduced in the pr esence of food. In particular, products containing calcium , including milk,  and other multivalent cations (such as aluminium,  magnesium, iron), are likely to interfere with absorption of Bonviva , which is consistent with findings in animal studies. Therefo re, patients should fast overnight (at least 6 hours) before taking Bonviva  and continue fasting for 1 hour following intake of Bonviva  (see section 4.2).  
 Interactions with ot her medicinal prod ucts Metabolic interactions are not considered likely, since i bandronic acid does not inhibit the major human hepatic P450 isoenzymes and has been shown not to induce the hepatic cytochro me P450 system in rats (see section 5.2). Ibandronic acid is eliminat ed by renal excretion only and does not undergo any biotransfo rmation.  
 Calcium supplements, antacids and some oral medicinal products containing multivalent cations  Calcium supplements, antacids and some oral medicinal products containi ng multivalent cat ions (such as aluminium, magnesium, iron) are likely to interf ere with the absorption of Bonviva . Therefore, patients should not take other oral medicinal products for at least 6 hours be fore taking Bonviva  and for 1 hour following intake of Bonviva .  
 Acetylsalicylic acid and NSAIDs   Since Acetylsalicylic acid , Nonsteroidal Anti -Inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs) and bisphosphonates are associated with gastrointestinal irritation, caution should be taken during concomitant administ ration  (see sectio n 4.4) . 
 H2 blockers or proton pump inhibitors  Of over 1500 p atients enrolled in study BM 16549 comparing monthly with daily dosing regimens of ibandronic acid, 14  % and 18  % of patients  used histamine (H2) blockers or proton pump inhibitors after one and  two years, respectively. Among these patients, the incidence of upper gastrointestinal events in the patients treated with Bonviva  150 mg once monthly was similar to that in patients treated with ibandronic acid 2.5  mg daily.  
 In healthy  male volunteers a nd postmenopausal women, intravenous administration of ranitid ine caused an increase in ibandronic acid bioavailability of about 20  %, probably as a result of reduced 6 gastric acidity. How ever, since this increase is within the normal variability of the bio availability of ibandronic acid, no dose adjustment is conside red necessary when Bonviva  is administered with H2 -antagonists or other active substances which increase gastric p 
 H.  
 
