4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Pharmacodynamic interactions 
 If treatment with a new negative inotrope is initiated or if the dose of a negative inotrope is increased in a patient receiving mavacamten, close medical supervision with monitoring of LVEF should be provided until stable doses and clinical response have been achieved (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
 Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 Effect of other medicinal products on mavacamten In CYP2C19 intermediate, normal, rapid and ultra-rapid metabolisers, mavacamten is primarily metabolised by CYP2C19 and to a lesser extent by CYP3A4. In CYP2C19 poor metabolisers, metabolism is mostly by CYP3A4 (see section 5.2). CYP2C19 inhibitors/inducers and CYP3A4 inhibitors/inducers may thus affect the clearance of mavacamten and increase/decrease mavacamten plasma concentration, and this will depend on the CYP2C19 phenotype. All clinical drug-drug interaction studies mainly enrolled CYP2C19 normal metabolisers and no CYP2C19 poor metabolisers were included in the assessment of the drug-drug interaction and therefore the effect of co-administration of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 inhibitors with mavacamten in CYP2C19 poor metabolisers is not completely certain. Recommendations for dose modification and/or additional monitoring of patients initiating or discontinuing treatment with, or changing the dose of, concomitant medicinal products that are inhibitors of CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 or inducers of CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 are provided in table 2. 
 Strong CYP2C19 plus strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Co-administration of mavacamten with the combination of a strong CYP2C19 and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is contra-indicated (see section 4.3). 
 CYP2C19 inhibitors The effect of a moderate and strong CYP2C19 inhibitor on the PK of mavacamten was not investigated in a clinical drug-drug interaction study. The effect of a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor (e.g., ticlopidine) will be similar to the effect of the CYP2C19 poor metabolising status (see table 1). Co-administration of mavacamten with a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor (omeprazole) resulted in a 48% increase in mavacamten AUC inf with no effect on C max in CYP2C19 normal metabolisers. Intermittent administration of a CYP2C19 inhibitor (such as omeprazole or esomeprazole) is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
 CYP3A4 inhibitors Co-administration of mavacamten with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (itraconazole) in CYP2C19 normal metabolisers resulted in an increase in mavacamten plasma concentration of up to 59% and 40% in AUC 0-24 and C max, respectively. Co-administration of mavacamten with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (verapamil) in CYP2C19 normal metabolisers resulted in an increase in mavacamten plasma concentration of 16% and 52% in AUC inf and C max, respectively. This change was not considered clinically significant. 
 CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 inducers No clinical interaction studies were conducted to investigate the effect of concomitant administration with a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inducer. Co-administration of mavacamten with a strong 10 inducer of both CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 (e.g., rifampicin) is expected to significantly affect the pharmacokinetics (PK) of mavacamten and leads to reduced efficacy and therefore co-administration with strong inducers of both CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 is not recommended. If discontinuing concomitant treatment with a strong inducer of CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 increase clinical assessments and mavacamten dose should be reduced (see section 4.2). 
 Table 2: Dose modification/monitoring of mavacamten with concomitant medicinal products 
 Concomitant medicinal product CYP2C19 poor metaboliser phenotype* CYP2C19 intermediate, normal, rapid and ultra-rapid metaboliser phenotype Inhibitors Combined use of a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor and a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor  Contra-indicated (see section 4.3) Contra-indicated (see section 4.3) Strong CYP2C19 inhibitor (e.g., ticlopidine, fluconazole, fluvoxamine) No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). 
 If CYP2C19 phenotype has not yet been determined: No adjustment of the starting dose of 2.5 mg is needed. The dose should be reduced from 5 mg to 
2.5 mg or pause treatment if on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section  4.2). Initiate mavacamten at a dose of 
2.5 mg. The dose should be reduced from 
15 mg to 5 mg and from 10 mg and 5 mg to 2.5 mg or pause treatment if on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). Strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., clarithromycin, itraconazole, ketoconazole, voriconazole, ritonavir, cobicistat, ceritinib, idelalisib, tucatinib)  Contra-indicated (see section 4.3) No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). Moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor (e.g., fluconazole, fluoxetine, omeprazolea) No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment (see section 4.2). 
 If CYP2C19 phenotype has not yet been determined: No adjustment of the starting dose of 2.5 mg is needed. The dose should be reduced from 5 mg to 
2.5 mg or pause treatment if on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessm ent (see section  4.2). No adjustment of the starting dose of 5 mg is needed. Initiating or increasing the dose of a moderate inhibitor while on mavacamten treatment: Dose should be reduced by one dose level or pause treatment if on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 
4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). 11 Concomitant medicinal product CYP2C19 poor metaboliser phenotype* CYP2C19 intermediate, normal, rapid and ultra-rapid metaboliser phenotype Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., erythromycin, grapefruit juice, verapamil, diltiazem) If on medication when starting mavacamten, no adjustment of the starting dose of 2.5 mg is needed. 
 Initiating or increasing the dose of a moderate inhibitor while on mavacamten treatment: If patients are receiving a 5 mg dose of mavacamten, their dose should be reduced to 
2.5 mg or if on 2.5 mg pause treatment for 
4 weeks. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section  4.2). No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). Weak CYP2C19 inhibitor (e.g., cimetidine, citalopram, omeprazolea, esomeprazole) No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment (see section 4.2). Initiating or increasing the dose of a weak inhibitor while on mavacamten treatment: Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and subsequently resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical asses sment  (see section  4.2). Weak CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., cimetidine, esomeprazole, omeprazole, pantoprazole) If on medication when starting mavacamten, no adjustment of the starting dose of 2.5 mg is needed.  
 Initiating or increasing the dose of weak inhibitor while on mavacamten treatment: If patients are receiving a 5 mg dose of mavacamten, their dose should be reduced to 
2.5 mg or if on 2.5 mg pause treatment for 
4 weeks. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section  4.2). Initiating or increasing the dose of a weak inhibitor while on mavacamten treatment: No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment (see section 4.2). Inducers Strong CYP2C19 inducer and strong CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., rifampicin, apalutamide, enzalutamide, mitotane, phenytoin, carbamazepine, efavirenz, St. John’s wort) Initiating or increasing the dose of strong inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Monitor LVOT gradient and LVEF 4 weeks later. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). The maximum dose is 5 mg. 
 Discontinuing or decreasing the dose of strong inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Decrease mavacamten dose from 5 mg to 
2.5 mg or pause treatment if on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). Initiating or increasing the dose of strong inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Monitor LVOT gradient and LVEF 4 weeks later. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). 
 Discontinuing or decreasing the dose of strong inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Decrease mavacamten by one dose level when on doses 5 mg or higher. Maintain mavacamten dose when on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section  4.2). 12 Concomitant medicinal product CYP2C19 poor metaboliser phenotype* CYP2C19 intermediate, normal, rapid and ultra-rapid metaboliser phenotype Moderate or weak CYP2C19 inducer (e.g., letermovir, norethindrone, prednisone) No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment (see section 4.2). Initiating the dose of moderate or weak inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Monitor LVOT gradient and LVEF 4 weeks later. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). 
 Discontinuing a moderate or weak inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Decrease mavacamten by one dose level when on doses 5 mg or higher. Maintain mavacamten dose when on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessme nt (see section  4.2). Moderate or weak CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenobarbital, primidone) Initiating or increasing the dose of moderate or weak inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Monitor LVOT gradient and LVEF 4 weeks later. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section 4.2). 
 Discontinuing or decreasing the dose of moderate or weak inducer while on mavacamten treatment: Decrease mavacamten dose to 2.5 mg or pause treatment if on 2.5 mg. Monitor LVEF 
4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule (see section  4.2). No dose adjustment. Monitor LVEF 4 weeks later, and then resume the patient’s monitoring and titration schedule. Adjust mavacamten dose based on clinical assessment (see section 4.2). 
* Includes patients for whom the CYP2C19 phenotype has not yet been determined. a Omeprazole is considered a weak CYP2C19 inhibitor at a dose of 20 mg once daily and a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor at a total daily dose of 40 mg. 
 Effect of mavacamten on other medicinal products  Mavacamten in vitro  data suggest a potential induction of CYP3A4 substrates. Co-administration of a 
17-day course of mavacamten at clinical relevant exposures in CYP2C19 normal, rapid and ultra-rapid metabolisers did not decrease the exposure to ethinyl oestradiol and norethindrone, which are the components of typical oral contraceptives and substrates for CYP3A4. Furthermore, co-administration of a 16-day course of mavacamten in CYP2C19 normal metabolisers, at clinical relevant exposures, resulted in a 13% decrease in midazolam plasma concentration. This change was not considered clinically significant.  
 13 