4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Dialysis  Interactio n studies have not been conducted in patients on dialysis. 
 Ciprofloxaci n In interaction studies in healthy volunteers, sevelamer hydrochloride  decreased the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by approximately 50% when co- administered with Renagel in a singl e dose study. Consequently, Renagel should not be taken simultaneously w ith ciprofloxacin.  
 Anti-arrhythmics and anti -seizure medicinal products  Patients taking anti -arrhythmic medicinal products for the control of arrhythmias and anti -seizure medicinal pr oducts for the control of seizure disorders were excluded from clinical trials.  Caution 5 should be exercised when prescribing sevel amer hydrochloride  to patients also taking these medicinal products. 
 Levothyroxine During post marketing experience, very ra re cases of increased  thyroid stimulating hormone ( TSH ) levels have been  reported in patients co -administered sevelamer hydrochloride and levothyroxine. Closer monitoring of TSH levels is therefore recommended in patients receiving both medicinal products. 
 Ciclosporin, mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus in transplant patients  Reduced levels of ciclosporin, mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus have been reported in transplant patients when coadministered with sevelamer hydrochloride without any clinical c onsequences (i.e graft rejection). The possibility of an interaction cannot be excluded and a close monitoring of blood concentrations of mycophenolate mofetil,  ciclosporin and tacrolimus should be considered during the use of combination and after its withdrawal.  
 Digoxin, warfarin, enalapril or metoprolol  In interaction studies in healthy volunteers, Renagel had no effect on the bioavailability of digoxin, warfarin, enalapril or metoprolol.  
 Proton pump inhibitors During post -marketing experience, very rare cases of increased phosphate levels have been reported in patients taking proton pump inhibitors co- administered with sevelamer hydrochloride.  
 Bioavailability  Renagel is not absorbed and may affect the bioavaila bility of other medicinal products. When administering any medicinal product where a reduction in the bioavai lability could have a clinically significant effect on safety or efficacy, the medicinal product should be administered at least one hour before or three hours after Renagel, or the physician should consider monitoring blood levels.  
 
