4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Potential for other  medicinal products  to affect the exposure to relugolix  
 P-gp inhibitors  
 Co-administration of Orgovy x and oral P -gp inhibitors  should be avoided . Relugolix is a P -gp substrate (see section  5.2). Upon c o-administration of a 120 -mg dose of  relugolix following administration of 500-mg dose s of erythromyci n four times daily  for 8 days , a moderate  P-gp and moderate CYP3A inhibito r, the area under the plasma concentration -time curve ( AUC ) and maximum plasma concentration ( Cmax) of relugolix was increased by 3.5- and 2.9 -fold, respectively , due to inhibition of intestinal P -gp by erythromycin , which result ed in an increase in the oral bioavailability  of relugolix .  
 Upon co -administration of a 120 mg dose of relugolix and a single 500 mg dose of azithromycin, a weak P -gp inhibitor, the AUC and C max of relugolix  were increased by 1.5 - and 1.6 -fold, respectively, although in the median concentration -time curves increases in relugolix exposure up to 5 -fold were observed 1 -3 hours after dosing. When the single dose of azithromycin was administered 6 hours after the 120 mg relugolix dose, the AUC and Cmax of relugolix were increased by 1.4 - and 1.3 -fold, respectively (see Table 1); the increase in relugolix exposure in the median concentration -time curves was maximally 1.6 -fold in the window 1 -3 hours after dosing. Du e to limited number of subjects (n=18) and high PK variability, confidence intervals around these increases were wide (for AUC from 
1.0- to 2.1 -fold).  
 5 Co-administration of Orgovyx with other oral P -gp inhibitors also may increase the AUC and C max of relugolix and may therefore  increase the risk of adverse reactions associated with Orgovyx. Medicinal products that are oral  P-gp inhibitors includ e certain anti -infective s (e.g. azithromycin, erythromycin, clarithromycin, gentamicin, tetracycline), antifungal agents (ketoconazole, itraconazole), antihypertensive s (e.g. carvedilol, verapamil), antiarrhythmic s (e.g. amiodarone, dronedarone, propafenone, quinidine), antianginal agents  (e.g. ranolazine), cyclosporine, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, telaprevir) . 
 If co-administration with once or twice daily oral P -gp inhibitors cannot be avoid ed, Orgovyx  should be taken  first, with the oral P -gp inhibitor take n 6 hours  thereafter , and patients  should be monitored  more frequently for adverse reactions. Alternatively, t reatment with Orgovyx may be interrupted for up to 2 weeks for a short course of treatment with a P -gp inhibitor (e.g. for certain macrolide antibiotics). If treatment with Orgovyx is interrupted for more than 7 days, resume administration of Orgovyx with a 360 mg loading dose on the first day followed by 120 mg once daily  (see section  4.2).  
 Combined P -gp and strong CYP3A inducers  
 Co-administration of Orgovyx  with combined P -gp and  strong CYP3A inducer s should be avoided . Upon c o-administration of a 40 -mg dose of relugolix following administration of 600-mg doses of rifamp icin once daily  for 13 days, a P-gp and strong CYP3A inducer , the AUC and C max of relugolix were decreased by 55% and 23%, respectivel y, due to induction of intestinal P -gp (and CYP3A)  by rifamp icin, which result ed in a decrease in the oral bioavailability  of relugolix . Co-administration of Orgovyx with other combined P -gp and strong CYP3A inducers also may decrease the AUC and C max of relugolix and may therefore  reduce the therapeutic effects of Orgovyx. Medicinal products that are combined P -gp and  strong  CYP3A4 inducers  include  the androgen receptor inhibitor  apalutam ide, certain anticonvulsants (e.g.  carbamazepine, phenytoin,  phenobarbital), anti -infective s (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin ), St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum ), HIV or  HCV protease inhibitors (e.g.  ritonavir) and non -nucleoside reverse  transcriptase inhibitors (e.g. efavirenz).  
 If co-administration cannot be avoid ed, the Orgovyx  dose should be increased (see section  4.2). After discontinuation of the combined P -gp and strong CYP3A inducer, the recommended dose of Orgovyx  should be resumed  once daily.  
 Other medicinal products   
 No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of relugolix were observed upon co-administ ration of relugolix  with voriconazole (strong CYP3A inhibitor ; 400-mg doses twice  daily  on the first day followed by 200-mg doses  twice daily  for 8 days), atorvastatin  (80-mg doses  once daily  for 10  days), or acid -reducing agents. No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of a single 5 -mg dose of midazolam (sensitive CYP3A substrate) or a single dose of 
10-mg of rosuvastatin ( breast cancer resistance protein [BCRP ] substrate) were observed upon co-administration with relugolix.  Based on l imited data (n=20) in men who received a 120-mg dose of  relugolix  and 80- to 160 -mg doses of enzalutamide (an androgen receptor signa lling inhibitor that is a strong CYP3A inducer and P -gp inhibitor) concomitantly  for up to 266 days in the phase 3 study , plasma relugolix  trough and serum testosterone concentrations  did not change to a clinically significant extent upon adding enzalutamide to the relugolix monotherapy . Therefore , the same dose of relugolix may be maintained during combination treatment.   
 Since androgen deprivation treatment may prolong the QT interval, the concomitant use of Orgovyx with medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval or medicinal products able to induce Torsade de pointes such as class IA (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide) or class III (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide) antiarrhythmic medicinal  products, methadone, moxifloxacin, antipsychotics, etc. should be carefully evaluated (see section  4.4). 
 Effect of co -administered medicinal products on  the exposure to  relugolix from clinical trials and associated dosing recommendations are summarised in Table 1. 
 6 Table  1. Effect of co -administered medicinal products on relugolix exposure ( Cmax, AUC 0-inf) from clinical trials and recommendations  Interacting drug dose regimen  Relugolix dose regimen  Change in relugolix AUC 0-inf Change in relugolix Cmax Recommendation  erythromycin  
500 mg QID, multiple doses  120 mg single dose  3.5 -fold ↑  2.9 -fold ↑  Concomitant use of Orgovyx  with erythromycin and other oral P -gp inhibitors is not recommended  
 If concomitant use with once or twice daily oral P-gp inhibitors is unavoidable (e.g. azithromycin), take Orgovyx  first, and separate dosing with the P-gp inhibitor by at least 
6 hours and monitor patients more frequently for adverse reactions.  azithromycin  
500 mg single dose  120 mg single dose  1.5 -fold ↑  1.6 -fold ↑  If concomitant use with once or twice daily oral P-gp inhibitors is unavoidable (e.g. azithromycin), take Orgovyx first, and separate dosing with the P-gp inhibitor by at least 
6 hours and monitor patients more frequently for adverse reactions.  azithromycin  
500 mg single dose 6 hours  after administration of relugolix  1.4 -fold ↑  1.3 -fold ↑  voriconazole  
200 mg BID, multiple doses  120 mg single dose  12% ↑  
 18% ↓  No dose modifications recommended for co -administration of relugolix and CYP3A4 inhibitors devoid of P -gp inhibition  fluconazole  
200 mg QD, multiple doses  40 mg single dose  
 19%↑  44% ↑  atorvastatin  
80 mg QD, multiple doses  40 mg single dose  5%↓ 22%↓  rifampicin  
600 mg QD, multiple doses  40 mg single dose  55%↓  23%↓  Co-administration of Orgovyx  with rifampicin and other strong CYP3A4 and/or P-gp inducers is not recommended  
 Potential for relugolix to affect the exposure to other medicinal products  Relugolix is a weak inducer of CYP3A -mediated metabolism. Upon co -administration of a single  
5-mg dose of midazolam , a sensitive CYP3A substrate, following once daily administration of 120 -mg doses of Orgovyx to steady state , the AUC 0-inf and C max of midazolam was decreased by 22% and 14%,  respectively , which  is not considered to be clinically meaningful. Clinically meaningful effects on other CYP3A4 substrates are not expected ; however, if a decrease in the therapeutic  effects occur, medicinal products (e.g. statins) may be titrated to achieve desired therapeutic effects.  7  Relugolix is an inhibitor of BCRP in vitro. Upon  co-administration of a single  10-mg dose of rosuvastatin, a BCRP and OATP1B1 substrate, following once daily administration of 120 -mg doses of relugolix  to steady state , the AUC 0-inf and C max of rosuvastatin were decreased by 27% and 34%, respectively. The decrease in exposure to rosuvastatin is not considered clinically meaningful; however, rosuvastatin may be titrated to achieve desired therapeutic  effects. The effect of relugolix  on other BCRP substrates has not been evaluated and the relevance for other BCRP substrates is unknown.  
 Relugolix is an inhibitor of P -gp in vitro. However, upon co -administration of a single 150 mg dose of dabigatran etexilate, a P -gp substrate, with a single 120 mg dose of relugolix , the AUC 0-inf and Cmax of total dabigatran was increased by 17% and 18%, respectively, which is not considered to be clinically meaningful.  Therefore, clinically meaningful effects of a 120 mg dose  relugolix on other  P-gp substrates are not expected.   
 Considering that the 360 mg loading dose of relugolix has not been tested, dose separation of the loading dose of relugolix from administration of other P -gp substrates is advised.  
 In vitro studies  Cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes:  Relugolix is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4 nor an inducer of CYP1A2 or CYP2B6 at clinically relevant plasma concentrations.  
 Transporter systems:  Relugolix  is not an inhibitor of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OATP2B1,  OAT1, OAT3, OCT2, MATE1, MATE2 -K, or BSEP at clinically relevant plasma concentrations.  
 
