4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Co-administration of  multiple doses of  sitagliptin (50
 mg twice daily) and metf ormin (1,000
 mg twicedaily) did not meaningf ully alter the pharmacokinetics of  either sitagliptin or metf ormin in patientswith type  2 diabetes .Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with Ristf or have not been perf ormed; however, such studieshave been conducted with the individual active substances, sitagliptin and metf ormin.Concomitant use not recommended 
 Alcohol 
 Alcohol intoxication is associated with an increased risk of  lactic acidosis, particularly in cases off asting, malnutrition or hepatic impairment
.Iodinated contrast agents 
 Ristf or must be discontinued prior to or at the time of the imaging procedure and
 not restarted
 until atleast 48 hours af ter, provided that
 renal f unction has been re
-evaluated and f ound to be stable  (seesection s 4.3 and 4.4).Combination s requiring precautions f or use 
 Some medicinal products can adversely af f ect renal function
, which may increase the risk
 of lacticacidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo
-oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, ACE inhibitors,7angiotensin II receptor antagonists and diuretics, especially loop diuretics. When starting or using suchproducts in combination with metf ormin, close monitoring of renal f unction is necessary.Concomitant use of  medicinal products
 that interf ere with common renal tubular transport systemsinvolved in the renal elimination of  metf ormin (e.g., organic cationic transporter
-2 [OCT
2] / multidrugand toxin extrusion [MAT E] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine)could increase systemic exposure to metf ormin and may increase the risk f or lactic acidosis. Considerthe benef its and risks of concomitant u se. Close mo nitoring of  glycaemic control, dose adjustmentwithin the recommended posology and changes in diabetic treatment should be considered when suchproducts are co
-administered.Glucocorticoids (given by systemic and local routes) beta
-2-agon ists, and diureti cs have intrinsichyperg lycaemic activity. The patient should be inf ormed and more f requent blood glucose monitoringperf ormed, especially at the beginning of  treatment with such medicinal products. If  necessary, thedose of  the anti
-hyper glycaemic medicinal product should be adjusted during therapy with the othermedicinal product and on its discontinuation.ACE -inhibitors may decrease the blood glucose levels. If  necessary, the dose of theanti-hyperglycaemic medicinal product should be adjusted during therapy with the other medicinalproduct and on its discontinuation.Effects of  other medicinal products on sitagliptin 
 In vitro  and clinical data described below suggest that the risk f or clinically meaningf ul interactionsf ollowing co
-adminis tration of  o ther medicinal products is low.In vitro  studies indicated that the primary enzyme responsible f or the limited metabolism of  sitagliptinis CYP3A4, with contribution f rom CYP2C
8. In patients with normal
 renal f unction, metabolism,includi ng via CYP3A4, plays only a small role in
 the clearance of  sitagliptin. Metabolism may play amore signif icant role in the elimination of  sitagliptin in the setting of  severe renal impairment
 orend-stage renal disease
 (ESRD )
. For this reason, it is possible that potent CYP
3A4 inhibitors (i.e.,ketoconazole
, itraconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin) could alter the pharmacokinetics of  sitagliptin inpatients with severe renal impai rment  or ESRD. The ef f ects of  potent CYP3A
4 inhibitors in the settingof  renal  impa irment  have  not been assessed in a clinical study.In vitro  transport studies showed that sitagliptin is a substrate for p
-glycoprotein and organic aniontransporter -3 (OAT 3)
. OAT3 mediated transport of  sitagliptin  was inhibited in vitro  by probenecid,although the risk of clinically meaningf ul interactions is considered to be low. Concomitantadministration of  OAT3 inhibitors has not been evaluated in vivo.Ciclosporin: A study was conducted to assess the eff ect of  ciclosporin, a potent inhibitor ofp-glycoprotein, on the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin. Co -administration of  a single 100
 mg oral doseof  sitagliptin and a single 600
 mg oral dose of  ciclosporin increased the AUC and Cmax of sitagliptin byappro ximate ly 29  % and 68  
%, respectively. Thes e cha nges in sita gliptin pharmacokinetics
 were notconsidered to be clinically meaningf ul. The renal clearance of sitagliptin was not meaningf ully altered.Theref ore, meaningf ul interactions would not be expected with ot her p-glycoprotein
 inhibitors.Ef f ects o f  sitaglipti n on other medicinal products 
 Digoxin: Sitagliptin had a small ef f ect on plasma digoxin concentrations. Following administration of
0.25 mg digoxin concomitantly
 with 100  mg of  sitagliptin daily f or 10 days, the plasma AUC ofdigoxin was increased on average by 11  
%, and the plasma Cmax on average by 18
 
%. No doseadjustment of  digoxin is recommended. However, patients at risk of  digoxin toxicity should bemonitored f or this when
 sitagliptin and digoxin are administered concomitantly.In vitro data suggest
 that sitagliptin does not inhibit nor induce CYP450 isoenzymes. In clinicalstudies
, sitagliptin did not meaningf ully alter the pharmacokinetics of  metf ormin, glyburide,simvastatin, rosiglitazone , warfarin, or oral contraceptives, providing in vivo evide nce of  a low8propensity f or causing interactions with substrates of  CYP3A4, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and organiccationic transporter (OCT). Sitagliptin may be a mild inhibitor of  p -glycoprotein in vivo. 
