4.5 Interaction with other medicinal pr oducts a nd other forms of interaction 
 Co-administration of multiple doses of sitagliptin (50 mg twice daily) and metf ormin (1,000
 mg twicedaily) di d not meaningf ully alter the pharmacokinetics of either sitaglipt in or metf ormin in patientswith type 2 diabetes.Pharmaco kinetic drug interaction studies with Janumet have not been perf ormed; however, suchstudies have been conducted with the individual
 activ e substanc es, sitagliptin and metf ormin.Conc omitant use n ot recommended 
 Alcohol 
 Alcohol intoxication  is associated with an increased risk of  lactic acidosis, particularly in cases off asting, malnutrition
 or hepatic impairment
.Iodinated contrast
 agent s 
 Janumet  must be discontinued prior to or at the time of  t he imaging procedure and not
 restarted until atleast 48 hours after, provided that
 renal  f unction has been re
-evaluated and found
 to be stable  (seesection s 4.3 and 4.4).Combi nation s requi ring p recautions  f or use 
 Some medicinal products can
 adversely af f ect renal function
, which m ay increase the risk of lacticacidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo
-oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, ACE inhibitors,7angiotensin II receptor
 antagonists and di uretics, e specially loop diuretics. When starting or using suchproducts in combination
 with metformin, close
 monitori ng of renal f unction is necessary.Concomitant use of medicinal products
 that inter fere with common renal tubular transport systemsinvolved in the re nal elimin ation of  metf ormin
 (e.g., organic cationic transp orter-2 [OCT2 ] / m ultidrugand toxin extrusion [MATE] inhib itors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine)could increase systemic exposure to metf ormin and may increase the ris k f or lact ic acidosis. Considerthe benef its and risks of  c onco mitant us e. Close monitoring of glycaemic control, dose  adjustmentwithin the recommended posology and changes in diabetic treatment should be considered when suchproducts a re co -adminis tered.Glucocor ticoids (given by systemic and local routes) beta -2-agonists, and d iuretics h ave intrinsichypergly caemic ac tivity
. The patient should be inf ormed and more f requent blood glucose monitoringperf ormed, especially at the beginning of treatment with  such medi cinal products. If
 necessary, thedose of  the ant i-hyperglycae mic m edicinal p roduct should be adjusted durin g therapy with the othermedicinal product and on its discontinuation.ACE-inhibitors may decrease the blood glucose levels. If  necessary , the dose of theanti-hyperglycaemic medicinal product sho uld be adjust ed du ring thera py with the other medicinalproduct and on its discontinuation.Effects of  other medicinal products on sitagliptin 
 In vitro and clinical data described below suggest th at the ris k for clinically meaningf ul interactionsf ollowin g co-administ ration of  other  medicinal products is
 low.In vitro studies indicated that the primary enzyme responsible for the limited metabolism of  sitagliptinis CYP3A4, with contribution f rom CYP2C8. In patients with normal renal function, metabolism,including via  CYP3 A4, plays only a small role in the cleara nce of sitagliptin. Metabolism
 may play amore signi f icant role in the elimination of sitagliptin in the setting of  severe renal impairmen t orend-stage renal disease
 (ESRD).  For this reason, it is  possible tha t potent CYP3A4
 inhibitors (i.e.,ketoconazole , itraconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin) could alter the pha rmacokine tics of sitagliptin inpatients with severe renal impairment
 or ESR D. The ef f ects of  potent CYP
3A4 inhibitors in the settingof  renal impai rment  have  not been assessed in a clinical study.In vitro  transport studies showed that sitagliptin is a substrate for p-glycoprotein
 and organic aniontransporter -3 (OAT3) . OA T3 med iated tran sport of  sit agliptin was inhibited in vitro by pr oben ecid,although  the risk of clinically meaningful intera ctions is considered to be low
. Concomitantadminist ration of OAT3 inhibitors has not been evaluated in vivo.Ciclospo rin: A study was co nducted to  assess the ef f ect  of  ciclosporin, a potent inhib itor ofp-glycopro tein, on t he pharmacokinetics of
 sitaglip tin. Co-administration of a single 100  mg oral doseof sitagliptin and a single 600  mg oral dose of ciclosporin increased the AUC and C max of  sitagl iptin byapproxima tely 29  % and 68  %, re spectivel y. These chan ges in sitaglip tin pharmacokinetics were notconsidered to be clinically meaningf ul. The renal clearance of sitagliptin was not meaningf ully altered.Theref ore, meaningf ul i ntera ctions  would not  be expected  with other p-glycoprotein
 inhibitors .Ef f ects of  sitagliptin on  other medicinal products 
 Digox in: Sitagliptin had a small ef f ect on plasma digoxin
 concentrations. Following administration of
0.25 mg digoxin concomitantly with 
100 mg of  sitagl iptin daily f or 10  days, the plasma AUC ofdigoxi n wa s increas ed on  average b y 11 %, and the plasma
 Cmax on average by 18  
%. No doseadjustment of  digoxin is recommended. However,
 patients at risk of  digoxin toxicity should bemonitored f or
 this when sitag liptin and d igoxin  are administered concomitantly .In vitro  data suggest tha t sitagliptin does not
 inhibit nor induce CYP450 isoenzymes. In clinicalstudies , sitagliptin did not meaningf ully alter
 the pharmacokinetics of metf ormin, glyburide,simvastatin,  rosiglitazo ne, warf arin, or oral contraceptives,  providing in vivo evidence of a low8propensity f or causing  interactions with substrates of CYP3A4, CYP2C8, CYP
2C9, and organiccationic transporter
 (OCT). Sitagliptin may be a mild inhibitor
 of  p-glycoprote in in vivo. 
