4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Sulphonylureas 
 The dose of a sulphonylurea may require adjustment due to the increased risk of hypoglycaemia associated with sulphonylurea therapy (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). Gastric emptying 
 The results of a study using paracetamol as a marker of gastric emptying sugg est that the effect of prolonged -release exenatide to slow gastric emptying is minor and not expected to cause clinically significant reductions in the rate and extent of absorption of concomitantly administered oral medicinal products. Therefore, no dose adjustments for medicinal products sensitive to delayed gastric emptying are required.When 1,000 mg paracetamol tablets were administered, either with or without a meal, following 
14weeks of prolonged -release exenatide therapy, no significant changes in paracetamol AUC were observed compared to the control period. Paracetamol C maxdecreased by 16% (fasting) and 5% (fed) and t maxwas increased from approximately 1 hour in the control period to 1.4 hours (fasting) and 
1.3hours (fed). The following interaction studies have been conducted using 10 mcg immediate -release exenatide but not prolonged -release exenatide:Warfarin 
 A delay in t maxof about 2 h was observed when warfarin was administered 35 min after immediate -release exenatide. No clinically relevant effects on C maxor AUC were observed. Increased INR has been spontaneously reported during concomitant use of warfarin and prolonged -release exenatide. INR should be monitored during initiation of prolonged -release exenatide therapy in patients o n warfarin and/or cumarol derivatives (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).6Hydroxy methyl glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors 
 Lovastatin AUC and C maxwere decr eased approximately 40% and 28%, respectively, and t maxwas delayed about 4 h when immediate -release exenatide was administered concomitantly with a single dose of lovastatin (40 mg) compared with lovastatin administered alone. In 30 -week placebo -controlled clinical studies with immediate -release exenatide, concomitant use of exenatide and HMG Co 
 A reduct ase inhibitors was not associated with consistent changes in lipid profiles (see section 5.1). No predetermined dose adjustment is required; however, lipid profiles should be monitored as appropriate.Digoxin and lisinopril 
 In interaction studies of the e ffect of immediate -release exenatide on digoxin and lisinopril there were no clinical relevant effects on C maxor AUC, however, a dela y in t maxof about 2 h was observed. Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel 
 Administration of a combination oral contracep tive (30 mcg ethinyl estradiol plus 150 mcg levonorgestrel) one hour before immediate -release exenatide did not alter the AUC, C maxor C minof either ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel. Administration of the oral contraceptive 35 minutes after exenatide did not affect AUC but resulted in a reduction of the C maxof ethinyl estradiol by 45%, and Cmaxof levonorgestrel by 27 -41%, and a delay in tmaxby 2-4h due to delayed gastric emptying. The reduction in C maxis of limited clinical relevance and no adjustment of dosing of oral contraceptives is required.Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies with exenatide have only been performed in adu lts.
