4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 Ruxolitinib is eliminated through metabolism catalysed by CYP3A4 and CYP2C9. Thus, medicinal products  inhibiting these enzymes can give rise to increased ruxolitinib exposure.  
 Interactions resulting in dose reduction  of ruxolitinib  
 CYP3A4 inhibitors  Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors  (such as, but not limited to , boceprevir,  clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir /ritonavir , ritonavir, mibefradil, nefazodone, nelfinavir, posaconazole, saquinavir, telaprevir, telithromycin, voriconazole)  In healthy subjects co-administration of ruxolitinib  (10 mg single dose) with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, ketoconazole, resulted in ruxolitinib C max and AUC that were higher by 33% and 91% , respectively , than with ruxolitinib alone. The half -life was prolonged from 3.7 to 6.0  hours  with concurrent ketoconazole administration . 
 When administering ruxolitinib with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors the unit dose of ruxolitinib  should be reduced by approximately 50% , to be administered twice daily . 
 Patients should be closely monitored  (e.g. twice weekly)  for cytopenias and dose titrated based on safety and efficacy (see section  4.2). 
 Dual CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 inhibitors  In healthy subjects co -administration of ruxolitinib (10  mg single dose) with a dual CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 inhibitor, fluconazole, resulted in ruxolitinib C max and AUC that were higher by 47% and 
232%, respectively, than with ruxolitinib alone.  
 
50% dose reduction should be considered when using medic inal products  which are dual inhibitor s of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 enzymes (e.g. fluconazole ). Avoid the concomitant use of ruxolitinib  with fluconazole doses greater than 200  mg daily.  
 Enzyme inducers  
 CYP3A4 inducers (such as, but not limited to, avasimibe, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifabutin, rifampin (rifampicin), St.John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum))  Patients should be closely monitored and the dose titrated based on safety and efficacy (see section  4.2). 
 11 In healthy subjects given ru xolitinib (50  mg single dose) following the potent CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin (600  mg daily dose for 10  days), ruxolitinib AUC was 70% lower than after administration of ruxolitinib alone. The exposure of ruxolitinib active metabolites was unchanged. Overall, the ruxolitinib pharmacodynamic activity was similar, suggesting the CYP3A4 induction resulted in minimal effect on the pharmacodynamics. However, this c ould be  related to the high ruxolitinib dose resulting in pharmacodynami c effects near E max. It is possible that in the individual patient, an increase of the r uxolitinib dose is needed when initiating treatment with a strong enzyme inducer.  
 Other interactions to be considered  affecting ruxolitinib  
 Mild or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors  (such as, but not limited to , ciprofloxacin, erythromycin, amprenavir, atazanavir, diltiazem, cimetidine)  In healthy subjects co-administration of ruxolitinib (10 mg single dose) with erythromycin 500  mg twice daily for four days resulted in ruxolitinib C max and AUC that were higher by 8% and 27% , respec tively , than with ruxolitinib alone.  
 No dose adjustment is recommended when ruxolitinib is co-administered with mild or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. erythromycin).  However , patients should be closely monitored for cytopenias when initiating therapy with a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor.  
 Effects of ruxolitinib on other medicinal products  
 Substances  transported by P-glycoprotein or other transporters  Ruxolitinib may inhibit P -glycoprotein and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) in the intestine. This may result in increased sytemic exposure of substrates of these transporters, such as dabigatran etexilate, ciclosporin, rosuvastatin and potentially digoxin. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) or clinical monitoring of the affected substance is advised.  
 It is possible that t he potential inhibition of P -gp and BCRP in the intestine can be minimi sed if the time between administrations is kept apart as long as possible.  
 A study in healthy subjects indicated that ruxolitinib did not inhibit the metabolism of the oral CYP3A4 substrate midazolam. Therefore, no increase in exposure of CYP3A4 substrates is anticipated when combining them with ruxolitinib . Another study in healthy subjects indicated that ruxolitinib  does not affect the pharmacokinetics of an oral contraceptive containing ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel. Therefore , it is not anticipated that the contraceptive efficacy of this combination will be compromised b y co-administration of ruxolitinib.  
 
