4.5 for interactions with immunosuppressants . 
 Sodium  content  
 This medicin al product  contains less than 1  mmol sodium ( 23 mg) per dose,  that is to say  essentially  
‘sodium -free’.  
 4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Based on exposure and indicated doses, the interaction profile is considered to be the same for all strengths and pharmaceutical forms.  
 Lumacaftor is a strong inducer of CYP3A and ivacaftor is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A when given as monotherapy. There is potential for other medicinal products to affect lumacaftor/ivacaftor when administered concomitantly, and also for lumacaftor/ivacaftor to affect other medicinal products.  
 Potential for other medicinal products to affect lumacaftor/ivacaftor  
 Inhibitors of CYP3A  
 Co-administration of lumacaftor/ivacaftor with itraconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, did not impact the exposure of lumacaftor, but increased ivacaftor exposure by 4.3- fold. Due to the induction effect of lumacaftor on CYP3A, at steady- state, the net exp osure of ivacaftor  when co- administered with a 7 CYP3A inhibitor  is not expected to exceed that when given in the absence of lumacaftor at a dose of 
150 mg every  12 hours, the approved dose of ivacaftor monotherapy.  
 No dose adjustment is necessary when CYP3A inhibitors are initiated in patients currently taking lumacaftor/ivacaftor . However, when initiating lumacaftor/ivacaftor in patients taking strong CYP3A inhibitors, the  dose should be adjusted (see section s 4.2 and 4.4 ). 
 No dose adjustment is recommended when used with moderate or weak CYP3A inhibitors.  
 Inducers of CYP3A  
 Co-administration of lumacaftor/ivacaftor with rifampicin, a strong CYP3A inducer, had minimal effect on the exposure of lumacaftor, but decreased ivacaftor exposure (AUC) by 57%. Therefore, co-administration of lumacaftor/ivacaftor is not recommended with strong CYP3A inducers  (see sections 4.2 and 4.4) . 
 No dose adjustment is recommended when used with moderate or weak CYP3A inducers.  
 Potential for lumacaftor/ivacaftor to affect other medicinal products  
 CYP3A substrates  
 Lumacaftor is a strong inducer of CYP3A. Ivacaftor is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A when given as monotherapy. The net effect of lumacaftor/ivacaftor therapy is expected to be strong CYP3A induction. Therefore, concomitant use of lumacaftor/ivacaftor with CYP3A substrates may decrease the exposure of these substrates  (see section 4.4) . 
 P-gp substrates  
 In vitro  studies indicated that  lumacaftor has the potential to both inhibit and induce P -gp. Additionally, a clinical study with ivacaftor monotherapy showed that ivacaftor is a weak inhibitor of P-gp. Therefore, concomitant use of lumacaftor/ivacaftor with P -gp substrates  (e.g., digoxin)  may alter the exposure of these substrates.  
 CYP2B6 and CYP2C substrates  
 Interaction with CYP2B6 and CYP2C substrates has not been investigated in vivo . In vitro  studies suggest that lumacaftor has the potential to induce CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19; however, inhibition of CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 has also been observed in vitro . Additionally, in vitro  studies suggest that ivacaftor may inhibit CYP2C9. Therefore, concomitant use of lumacaftor/ivacaftor  may alter (i.e., either increase or decrease) the exposure of CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 substrates , decrease the exposure of CYP2C19 substrates, and substantially decrease the exposure of  CYP2B6 substrates.  
 Potential for lumacaftor/ivacaftor to interact with transporters  
 In vitro  experiments show that lumacaftor is a substrate for  Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP). Co-administration of Orkambi with medicinal products that inhibit BCRP may increase plasma lumacaftor concentration. Lumacaftor inhibits the organic anion transporter (OAT)  1 and 3. Lumacaftor and ivacaftor are inhibitors of BCRP. Co -administration of Orkambi with medicinal products that are substrates for OAT1/3 and BCRP transport may increase plasma  concentrations of such medicinal products. Lumacaftor and ivacaftor are not inhibitors of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and organic cation transporter ( OCT ) 1 and 2. Ivacaftor is not  an inhibitor of OAT1 and OAT3. 
 Established and other potentially significant interactions  
 Table 4 provides the established or predicted effect of lumacaftor/ivacaftor on other medicinal products or the effect of other medicinal products on lumacaftor/ivacaftor. The information reported in 8 Table  4 mostly derives from in vitro  studies.  The recommendations provided under “Clinical comment” in  Table 4 are based on interaction studies, clinical relevance, or predicted interactions due to elimination pathways. I nteractions that have the most clinical relevance are listed first.  
 Table  4: Established and other potentially significant interactions - dose recommendations for use of lumacaftor/ivacaftor  with other medicinal products  
 Concomitant medicinal product class:  Active substance  name  Effect  Clinical comment  Concomitant medicinal products of most clinical relevance  Anti -allergics:  montelukast  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↓ montelukast  Due to the induction of CYP3A/2C8/2C9 by LUM  No dose adjustment for montelukast is recommended. Appropriate clinical monitoring should be employed, as is reasonable, when co- administered with lumacaftor/ivacaftor . Lumacaftor/ivacaftor  may decrease the exposure of montelukast, which may reduce its efficacy.  fexofenadine  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↑ or ↓ fexofenadine  Due to potential induction or inhibition of P-gp Dose adjustment of fexofenadine may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor  may alter the exposure of fexofenadine.  Antibiotics:  clarithromycin, telithromycin  ↔ LUM  
↑ IVA  Due to inhibition of CYP3A by clarithromycin, telithromycin  No dose adjustment of lumacaftor/ivacaftor is recommended when clarithromycin or telithromycin are initiated in patients currently taking lumacaftor/ivacaftor.
 
↓ clarithromycin, telithromycin  Due to induction of CYP3A by LUM  The dose of lumacaftor/ivacaftor should be reduced to one tablet daily  for the first week of treatment when initiating lumacaftor/ ivacaftor in patients currently taking clarithromycin or telithromycin.  
 An alternative to these antibiotics, such as azithromycin, should be considered. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposures of clarithromycin and telithromycin, which may reduce their efficacy.  erythromycin  ↔ LUM  
↑ IVA  Due to inhibition of CYP3A by erythromycin  No dose adjustment of lumacaftor/ivacaftor is recommended when co -administered with erythromycin.  9 Concomitant medicinal product class:  Active substance  name  Effect  Clinical comment  
↓ erythromycin  Due to induction of CYP3A by LUM  An alternative to erythromycin, such as azithromycin, should be considered. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposure of erythromycin, which may reduce its efficacy.  Anticonvulsants:  carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin  ↔ LUM  
↓ IVA  Due to induction of CYP3A by these anticonvulsants   
↓ carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin  Due to induction of CYP3A by LUM  Concomitant use of lumacaftor/ivacaftor with these anticonvulsants is not recommended. The exposures of ivacaftor and the anticonvulsant may be significantly decreased, which may reduce the efficacy of both active substances.  Antifungals:  itraconazole*, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole  ↔ LUM  
↑ IVA  Due to inhibition of CYP3A by these antifungals  No dose adjustment of lumacaftor/ivacaftor  is recommended when these antifungals  are initiated in patients currently taking lumacaftor/ivacaftor . 
↓ itraconazole, ketoconazole, voriconazole  Due to induction of CYP3A by LUM  The dose of lumacaftor/ivacaftor should be reduced to one tablet daily  for the first week of treatment when initiating lumacaftor/ ivacaftor in patients currently taking these antifungals.  
↓ Posaconazole  Due to induction of UGT by LUM  Concomitant use of lumacaftor/ivacaftor with these antifungals is not recommended. Patients should be monitored closely for breakthrough fungal infections if such medicinal products are necessary. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposures of these antifungals, which may reduce their efficacy.  fluconazole  ↔ LUM  
↑ IVA  Due to inhibition of CYP3A by fluconazole  No dose adjustment of lumacaftor/ivacaftor is recommended when co -administered with fluconazole.  
↓ fluconazole  Due to induction by LUM; fluconazole is cleared primarily by renal excretion as unchanged drug; however, modest reduction in fluconazole exposure has been observed with strong inducers  A higher dose of fluconazole may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposure of fluconazole, which may reduce its efficacy.  10 Concomitant medicinal product class:  Active substance  name  Effect  Clinical comment  Anti -inflammatories:  ibuprofen  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↓ ibuprofen  Due to induction of CYP3A/2C8/2C9 by LUM  A higher dose of ibuprofen may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposure of ibuprofen, which may reduce its efficacy.  Anti -mycobacterials:  rifabutin,  rifampicin*, rifapentine  ↔ LUM  
↓ IVA  Due to induction of CYP3A by anti -mycobacterials   
↓ rifabutin  Due to induction of CYP3A by LUM  Concomitant use  of lumacaftor/ivacaftor with these anti -mycobacterials is not recommended. The exposure of ivacaftor will be decreased, which may reduce the efficacy of lumacaftor/ivacaftor.  
 A higher dose of rifabutin may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor  may decrease the exposure of rifabutin, which may reduce its efficacy.  
↔ rifampicin, rifapentine   Benzodiazepines:  midazolam,  triazolam  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↓ midazolam,  triazolam  Due to induction of CYP3A by LUM  Concomitant use of lumacaftor/ivacaftor with these benzodiazepines is not recommended. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor will decrease the exposures of midazolam and triazolam, which will reduce their efficacy.  Hormonal contraceptives:  ethinyl estradiol, norethindrone, and other progestogens  ↓ ethinyl estradiol, norethindrone, and other progestogens  Due to induction of CYP3A/UGT by LUM  Hormonal contraceptives, including oral, injectable, transdermal, and implantable, should not be relied upon as an effective method of contraception when co-administered with lumacaftor/ivacaftor . Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposure of hormonal contraceptives, which may reduce their efficacy.  Immunosuppressants:  ciclosporin, everolimus, sirolimus, tacrolimus ↔ LUM, IVA   11 Concomitant medicinal product class:  Active substance  name  Effect  Clinical comment  (used after organ transplant)  ↓ ciclosporin, everolimus, sirolimus, tacrolimus  Due to induction of CYP3A by LUM  Concomitant use of lumacaftor/ivacaftor with these immunosuppressants is not recommended. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor will decrease the exposure of these immunosuppressants, which may reduce the efficacy of these immunosuppressants. The use of lumacaftor/ivacaftor in organ transplant patients has not been studied.  Proton pump inhibitors:  esomeprazole, lansoprazole, omeprazole  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↓ esomeprazole, lansoprazole, omeprazole  Due to induction of CYP3A/2C19 by LUM  A higher dose of these proton pump inhibitors may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposures of these proton pump inhibitors, which may reduce their efficacy.  Herbals:  St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum ) ↔ LUM  
↓ IVA  Due to induction of CYP3A by St. John’s wort Concomitant use  of lumacaftor/ivacaftor with St. John’s wort  is not recommended. The exposure of ivacaftor will be decreased, which may reduce the efficacy of lumacaftor/ivacaftor.  Other concomitant medicinal products of clinical relevance  Antiarrhythmics:  digoxin  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↑ or ↓ digoxin  Due to potential induction or inhibition of P-gp The serum concentration of digoxin should be monitored and the dose should be titrated to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may alter the exposure of digoxin.  Anticoagulants:  dabigatran  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↑ or ↓ dabigatran  Due to potential induction or inhibition of P-gp Appropriate clinical monitoring should be employed when co- administered with lumacaftor/ivacaftor . Dose adjustment of dabigatran  may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. L umacaftor/ivacaftor  may alter the exposure of dabigatran . warfarin  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↑ or ↓ warfarin  Due to potential induction or inhibition of CYP2C9 by LUM  The international normalised  ratio (INR) should be monitored when warfarin co-administration with lumacaftor/ivacaftor  is required. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor  may alter the exposure of warfarin.  12 Concomitant medicinal product class:  Active substance  name  Effect  Clinical comment  Antidepressants:  citalopram, escitalopram, sertraline  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↓ citalopram, escitalopram, sertraline  Due to induction of CYP3A/2C19 by LUM  A higher dose of these antidepressants may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposures of these antidepressants, which may reduce their efficacy.  bupropion  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↓ bupropion  Due to induction of CYP2B6 by LUM  A higher dose of bupropion may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposure of bupropion, which may reduce its efficacy.  Corticosteroids, systemic:  methylprednisolone, prednisone  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↓ methylprednisolone, prednisone  Due to induction of CYP3A by LUM  A higher dose of these systemic corticosteroids may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposures of methylprednisolone and prednisone, which may reduce their efficacy.  H2 blockers:  ranitidine  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↑ or ↓ ranitidine  Due to potential induction or inhibition of P-gp Dose adjustment of ranitidine may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor  may alter the exposure of ranitidine . Oral hypoglycemics:  repaglinide  ↔ LUM, IVA   
↓ repaglinide  Due to induction of CYP3A/2C8 by LUM  A higher dose of repaglinide may be required to obtain the desired clinical effect. Lumacaftor/ivacaftor may decrease the exposure of repaglinide, which may reduce its efficacy.  Note: ↑  = increase, ↓  = decrease, ↔ = no change; LUM  = lumacaftor; IVA  = ivacaftor.  
* Based on clinical interaction studies. All other interactions shown are predicted.  
 False positive urine t ests for THC  
 There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving Orkambi. An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify results.  
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  13  
