4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 In vitro  data sugge sts a potential for  induction of CYP1A2 (meropenem), CYP3A4 (meropenem and vaborbactam) and potentially other PXR regulated enzymes and transporters (meropenem and vaborbactam). When administering  Vaborem  concomitantly with medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by CYP1A2 (e.g theophylline), CYP3A4 (e.g alprazolam, midazolam, tacrolimus, sirolimus, cyclosporine, simvastatin, omeprazole, nifedipine, quinidine  and ethinylestradiol ) and/or CYP2C (e.g. warfarin, phenytoin) and/or transporte d by P -gp (e.g. dabigatran, digoxin) there could be a potential risk of interaction which may result in decreased plasma concentrations and activity of the co-administered medicinal product . Therefore, patients taking such medicinal products should be monitored for possible clinical signs of altered therapeutic efficacy . Both meropenem and vaborbactam are substrates of OAT3 and as such, probenecid competes with meropenem for active tubular secretion and thus inhibits the renal excretion of meropenem and the same mechanism could apply for vaborbactam . Co-administration of probenecid with Vaborem is not recommended, as it may result in increased plasma concentrations of meropenem  and vaborbactam . 
 Concomitant administration of meropenem and valproic acid has been associated with reductions in valproic acid concentrations with subsequent loss in seizure control. D ata from in vitro  and animal studies suggest that carbapenems may inhibit the hydrolysis of valproic acid’s glucuronide metabolite (VPA g) back to valproic acid, thus decreasing the serum concentrations of valproic acid. Therefore, supplemental anticonvulsant therapy should be administered when concomitant administration of valproic acid and meropenem/vaborbactam cannot be avoided (see section 4.4).  
 Oral anti coagulants  
 7 Simultaneous administration of antibacterial agents  with warfarin may augment its anti coagulant effects. There have been many r eports of increases in the anti coagulant effects of orally administered anticoagulants, including warfarin in patients, who are concomitantly receiving antibacterial agents. The risk may vary with the underlying infection, age and general status of the patient so that the contribution of the antibacterial agent to the increase in international normalised ratio  (INR) is d ifficult to assess. It is recommended that the INR should be monitored frequently during and shortly after co-administration of Vaborem  with an oral anticoagulant. 
 Contraceptives  
 Vaborem  may decrease the efficacy  of hormonal contraceptive medicinal products  containing oestrogen and/or progesterone. Women of childbearing potential should be advised to use alternative effective contraceptive methods during treatment with Vaborem and for a period of 28 days after discontinuation of treatment.  
 
