4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Medicinal products affecting the pharmacokinetics of ELX, TEZ and/or IVA  
 CYP3A inducers  ELX , TEZ and IVA are substrates of CYP3A ( IVA is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A). Concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers may result in reduced exposures and thus reduced IVA/TEZ/ELX  efficacy. Co -administration of IVA with rifampici n, a strong CYP3A inducer, significantly decreased IVA area under the curve (AUC) by 89%. ELX  and TEZ exposures are also expected to decrease during co-administration with strong CYP3A inducers; therefore, co -administration with strong CYP3A inducers is not recommended  (see section 4.4) . 
 Examples of strong CYP3A inducers include:  
• rifampicin, rifabutin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin and St. John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) 
 CYP3A inhibitors  Co-administration with itraconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, increased ELX  AUC by 2.8-fold and TEZ AUC by 4.0- to 4.5-fold. When co- administered with itraconazole and ketoconazole, IVA  AUC increased by 15.6-fold and 8.5-fold, respectively. The dose of IVA/TEZ/ELX  and IVA should be reduced when co -administered with strong CYP3A inhibitors (see Table  2 in section  4.2 and section  4.4). 
 Examples of strong CYP3A inhibitors include:  
• ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole and voriconazole  
• telithromycin and clarithromycin  
 Simulations indicated that co -administration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors  fluconazole, erythromycin and verapamil , may increase ELX  and TEZ AUC by approximately 1.9- to 2.3 -fold. Co -administration of fluconazole increased IVA AUC by 2.9-fold. The dose of IVA/TEZ/ELX  and IVA should be reduced when co-administered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors (see Table 2 in section  4.2 and section  4.4). 
 Examples of moderate CYP3A inhibitors include:  
• fluconazole  
• erythromycin 
 Co-administration with grapefruit juice, which contains one or more components that moderately inhibit CYP3A, may increase exposure of ELX , TEZ and IVA. Food or drink containing grapefruit should be avoided during treatment with IVA/TEZ/ELX  and IVA (see section  4.2). 
 Potential for interaction with transporters  In vitro  studies showed that ELX  is a substrate for the efflux transporters  P-gp and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) but is not a substrate for OATP1B1 or OATP1B3. Exposure to ELX  is not expected to be affected significantly by concomitant use of P -gp and BCRP inhibitors due to its high intrinsic permeability  and low likelihood of being excreted intact . 
 In vitro  studies showed that TEZ is a substrate for the uptake transporter OATP1B1 and efflux transporters P -gp and BCRP. TEZ is not a substrate for OATP1B3. Exposure to TEZ is not expected to be affected significantly by concomitant inhibitors of OATP1B1, P -gp, or BCRP due to its high 9 intrinsic permeability and low likelihood of being excreted intact. However, exposure to M2-TEZ (TEZ metabolite) may be increased by inhibitors of P -gp. Therefore, caution should be used when P -gp inhibitors (e.g., ciclosporin)  are used with  IVA/TEZ/ELX . 
 In vitro  studies showed that IVA is not a substrate for OATP1B1, OATP1B3, or P -gp. I VA and its metabolites are substrates of BCRP in  vitro . Due to its high intrinsic permeability and low likelihood of being excreted intact,  co-administration of BCRP inhibitors is not expected to alter exposure of IVA and M1-IVA, while any potential changes in M6 -IVA exposures are not expected to be clinically relevant.  
 Medicinal products affected by ELX, TEZ and/or IVA  
 CYP2C9 substrates   IVA may inhibit CYP2C9; therefore, monitoring of the international normali sed ratio (INR) during co-administration of warfarin with IVA/TEZ/ELX  and IVA is recommended. Other medicinal products for which exposure may be increased include glimepiride and glipizide; these medicinal products should be used with caution.  
  Potential for interaction with transporters  Co-administration of IVA or TEZ/IVA  with digoxin, a sensitive P-gp substrate, increased digoxin AUC by 1.3-fold, consistent with weak inhibition of P -gp by IVA. Administration of IVA/TEZ/ELX  and IVA may increase systemic exposure of medicinal products that are sensitive substrates of P -gp, which may increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. When used concomitantly with digoxin or other substrates of P -gp with a nar row therapeutic index such as ciclosporin , everolimus, sirolimus and tacrolimus, caution and appropriat e monitoring should be used.  
 ELX  and M23-ELX inhibit uptake by OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 in vitro . TEZ/IVA  increased the AUC of pitavastatin, an OATP1B1 substrate, by 1.2 -fold. Co -administration with IVA/TEZ/ELX  in combination with IVA may increase exposures of medicinal products that are substrates of these transporters, such as statins, glyburide, nateglinide and repaglinide. When used concomitantly with substrates of OATP1B1 or OATP1B3, caution and appropriate monitoring should be use d. Bilirubin is an OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrate. In study 445-102, mild increases in mean total bilirubin were observed (up to 4.0 µmol/L change from baseline). This finding is consistent with the in  vitro  inhibition of bilirubin transporters OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 by ELX  and M23-ELX.  
 ELX  and IVA are inhibitors of BCRP. Co -administration of IVA/TEZ/ELX, and IVA may increase exposures of medicinal products that are substrates of BCRP, such as rosuvastatin. When used concomitantly with substrates of BCRP, appropriate monitoring should be used.  
 Hormonal contraceptives  
 IVA/TEZ/ELX  in combination with IVA has been studied with ethinyl estradiol/levonorgestrel and was found to have no clinically relevant effect on the exposures of the oral contraceptive. IVA/TEZ/ELX  and IVA is not expected to have an impact on the efficacy of oral contraceptives.  
 Paediatric population   
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
