4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of  interaction 
 Interactions affecting the use of this medicinal product  
 Interactions affecting the p otassium homeostasis 
 Concomitant use of medicinal product s known to cause hyperkalaemia  (such as lisinopril , valsartan, indomethacin ) with spironolactone may result in severe hyperkalaemia. In addition, concomitant use of trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (co- trimoxazole) with spironolactone may result in clinically relevant hyperkalaemia.  
 Since ACE inhibitors decrease aldosterone production, they should not routinely be used with spironolactone , particularly in patients with marked renal impairment.  
 Hyperkalaemic metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients given spironolactone concurrently with ammonium chloride or colestyramine.  
 Interactions attenuating the natriuretic effect of spironolactone 
 Non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  medicinal product s such as acetylsalicylic acid , indomethacin  and mefenamic acid may attenuate the natriuretic efficacy of diuretics due to the inhibition of intra -renal synthesis of prostaglandins and have been shown to att enuate the diuretic effect of  spironolactone. 
 Interactions affecting the use of other medicinal products  
 Concurrent use with carbenoxolone or lithium salts should be avoided.  7  Spironolactone binds to the androgen receptor and may increase prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels in abiraterone -treated prostate cancer patients. Use with abiraterone is not recommended.  
 Potentiation of the effect of other diuretics and antihypertensive medicinal product s occurs and their  dose may need to be reduced by about 50% when s pironolactone is added to the treatment regime, and then adjusted as necessary. Concomitant administration with cardiac glycosides may necessitate adjustment of the doses of these medicinal product s. 
 Spironolactone has been shown to increase the half-life of digoxin. Spironolactone  has been  reported  to increase serum  digoxin  concentration and to interfere  with certain serum digoxin assays. In patients receiving digoxin and spironolactone the digoxin response should be monitored by means other than serum digoxin concentrations, unless the digoxin assay used has been proven not to be affected by spironolactone therapy. If it proves necessary to adjust the dose of digoxin, patients should be carefully monitored for evidence of enhanced or reduced digoxin effect.  
 Spironolactone reduces vascular responsiveness to noradrenaline.  
 Caution should be exercised in the management of patients subjected to regional or general anaesthesia while they are being treated with spironolactone. 
 Spironolactone enhances the metabolism of antipyrine. 
 In fluorimetric assays, spironolactone may interfere with the estimation of compounds with similar fluorescence characteristics.  
 