4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of other medicinal products on alogliptin 
 Alogliptin is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine and metabolism by the cytochrome (CYP) P450 enzyme system  is negligible (se e section  5.2). Interactions with CYP inhibitors are thus not expected and have not been shown. 
 Results from clinical interaction studies also demonstrate that there are no clinically relevant effects of gemfibrozil (a CYP2C8/9 inhibitor), fluconazole (a CYP2C9 inhibitor), ketoconazole (a CYP3A4 inhibitor), cyclosporine (a p- glycoprotein inhibitor), voglibose (an alpha -glucosidase inhibitor), digoxin, metformin, cimetidine, pioglitazone or atorvastatin on the pharmacokinetics of alogliptin.  Effects of alo gliptin on other medicinal products  
 In vitro  studies suggest that alogliptin does not inhibit nor induce CYP 450 isoforms at concentrations achieved with the  recommended dose of 25 mg alogliptin (see section  5.2). Interaction with substrates of CYP 450 isoforms are thus not expected and have not been shown. In studies in  vitro , alogliptin was found to be neither a substrate nor an inhibitor of key transporters associated with disposition of the active substance in t he kidney: organic anion transporter -1, organic anion transporter- 3 or organic cationic transporter -2 (OCT2). Furthermore, clinical data do not suggest interaction with p-glycoprotein inhibitors or substrates.  
 6 In clinical studies, alogliptin had no clini cally relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of caffeine, (R)-warfarin , pioglitazone, glyburide, tolbutamide, (S)-warfarin, dextromethorphan, atorvastatin, midazolam, an oral contraceptive (norethindrone and ethinyl oestradiol), digoxin, fexofenadine, metformin, or cimetidine , thus providing in  vivo  evidence of a low propensity to cause interaction with substrates of CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, p- glycoprotein, and OCT2. 
 In healthy subjects, alogliptin had no effect on prothrombin time or International Normalised Ratio (INR)  when administered concomitantly with warfarin. 
 Combination with other anti- diabetic medicinal products  
 Results from studies with metformin, pioglitazone (thiazolidinedione), voglibose (alpha -glucosidase inhibitor) and glyburide (sulphonylurea) have shown no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions. 
 
