4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of entrectinib on other  medicinal product s 
 Effect of entrectinib on CYP substrates  Entrectinib is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Co -administration of entrectinib  600 mg once daily with oral midazolam (a sensitive CYP3A substrate) in patients increased the midazolam AUC by 50% but reduced midazolam Cmax by 21%. Caution is advised when entrectinib is administered together with sensitive CYP3A4 substrates with a  narrow therapeutic range (e.g., cisapride, cyclosporin, ergotamine, fentanyl, pimozide, quinidine, tacrolimus, alfentanil and sirolimus), due to the increased risk of adverse drug reactions.  
 Effect of entrectinib on P -gp substrates  In vitro  data suggest that entrectinib has inhibitory potential towards P -glycoprotein (P -gp). 
 Co-administration of a single 600  mg dose of entrectinib  with digoxin (a sensitive P -gp substrate) increased digoxin C max by 28% and AUC by 18%. The renal clearance of digoxin was similar between treatments of digoxin alone and digoxin co- administered with entrectinib, indicating minimal effect of entrectinib on renal clearance of digoxin.  
 The effect of entrectinib  on digoxin absorption is not considered clinically relevant, but it is unknown whether the effect of entrectinib may be larger on more sensitive oral P -gp substrates such as dabigatran etexilate . 
 Effect of entrectinib on BCRP substrates  Inhibition of BCRP was observed in in vitro  studies.  The clinical relevance of this inhibition  is unknown, but caution is advised when sensitive oral BCRP substrates (e.g. methotrexate, mitoxantrone, topotecan , lapatinib ) are co-administered  with entrectinib , due to the risk of  increased absorption.  
 Effect of entrectinib on other transporter substrates  In vitro  data indicate that entrectinib ha s weak inhibitory potential toward s organic anion- transporting polypeptide ( OATP )1B1. The clinical relevance of this inhibition is unknown, but caution is advised when sensitive oral OATP1B1 substrates (e.g. atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin repaglinide, bosentan) are co -administered with entrectinib , due to the risk of increased absorption . 
 Effect of entrectinib on s ubstrates of PXR regulated enzymes  In vitro studies indicate that entrectinib may induce pregnane X receptor ( PXR ) regulated enzymes (e.g. CYP2C family and UGT). Co- administration of entrectinib with CYP2C8, CYP2C9 or CYP2C19 substrates (e.g. repaglinide, warfarin, tolbutamide or omeprazole) may decrease their exposure.  
 Oral c ontraceptives  It is currently unknown whether entrectinib may reduce the effectiveness of systemically acting hormonal contraceptives . Therefore , women using systemically acting hormonal contraceptives are advised to add a barrier method (see section 4.6) . 
 10 Effects of other medicinal product s on e ntrectinib  
 Based on in vitro  data, CYP3A4 is the predominant enzyme mediating the metabolism of entrectinib and formation of its major active metabolite M5.  
 Effect of CYP3A or P -gp inducers  on entrectinib  Co-administration of multiple oral doses of rifampin, a strong CYP3A inducer, with a single oral dose of entrectinib reduced entrectinib AUC inf by 77%  and Cmax by 56% . 
 Co-administration of entrectinib  with CYP3A/P -gp inducers (including, but not limited to, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifabutin, rifampicin, St. John's Wort - Hypericum perforatum -, apalutamide, ritonavir ) should be avoided . 
 Effect of CYP3A or P -gp inhibitors  on entrectinib  Co-administration of itraconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, with a single oral dose of entrectinib increased  AUC inf by 600% and C max by 173%.  
 Co-administration of strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors  (including, but not limited to, ritonavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole, grapefruit or Seville oranges ) should be avoided. If concurrent use of strong or moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 is unavoidable, dose adjustment of entrectinib  is required  (see section 4 .2). 
 Although, a marked effect of inhibitory P -gp medicinal products  on entrectinib pharmacokinetics is not expected, caution is advised when treatment with strong or moderate P -gp inhibitors (e.g. verapamil, nife dipine, felodipine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine) are co- administered with entrectinib  due to risk of increased entrectinib exposure  (see section 5.2) . 
 Effect of m edicinal products that increase gastric p 
 H  on entrectinib  Co-administration of a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), lansoprazole with a single 600 mg entrectinib dose reduced entrectinib AUC by 25% and C max by 23% . 
 No dose adjustments are required when entrectinib  is co-administered with PPIs or other drugs that raise gastric p 
 H (e.g., H2 receptor antagonists or antacids).  
 
