4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No interaction studies with Suliqua have been performed. The information given below is based on studies with the monocomponents.  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 A number of substances affect glucose metabolism and may require dose adjustment of Suliqua. 
 Substances that may enhance the blood -glucose-lowering effect and increase susceptibility to hypoglycaemia include anti- hyperglycaemic medicinal products, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, disopyramide, fibrates, fluoxetine, monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, pentoxifylline, propoxyphene, salicylates and sul phonamide antibiotics.  
 Substances that may reduce the blood-glucose- lowering effect include corticosteroids, danazol, diazoxide, diuretics, glucagon, isoniazid, oestrogens and progestogens, phenothiazine derivatives, somatropin, sympathomimet ic medicinal products  (e.g. , epinephrine [adrenaline], salbutamol, terbutaline), thyroid hormones, atypical antipsychotic medicinal products (e.g., clozapine and olanzapine) and protease inhibitors. 
 Beta-blockers, clonidine, lithium salts or alcohol may either potentiate or weaken the blood-glucose- lowering effect of insulin. Pentamidine may cause hypoglycaemia, which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycaemia.  In addition, under the influence of sympatholytic medicinal products such as beta -blockers, clonidine, guanethidine and reserpine, the signs of adrenergic counter-regulation may be reduced or absent. 
 Pharmacokinetic interactions   
 Lixisenatide is a peptide and is not metabolised by cytochrome P450. In in vitro  studies, lixisenatid e did not affect the activity of cytochrome  P450 isozymes or human transporters tested. No pharmacokinetic interactions are known for insulin glargine. 
 Effect of gastric emptying on oral medicinal products The delay of gastric emptying with lixisenatide may reduce the rate of absorption of orally administered medicinal products. Patients receiving medicinal products of either a narrow therapeutic ratio or medicinal products that require careful clinical monitoring should be followed closely, especially at the time of initiation of lixisenatide treatment. These medicinal products should be taken in a standardised way in relation to lixisenatide. If such medicinal products are to be administered with food, patients should be advised to, if possi ble, take them with a meal when lixisenatide is not administered.  
 For oral medicinal products that are particularly dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy, such as antibiotics, patients should be advised to take those medicinal products at lea st 1 hour before or 4 hours after lixisenatide injection.  Gastro -resistant formulations containing substances sensitive to stomach degradation, should be administered 1  hour before or 4 hours after lixisenatide injection.  
 Paracetamol  Paracetamol was used as a model medicinal product to evaluate the effect of lixisenatide on gastric emptying. Following administration of a single dose of paracetamol 1000 mg, paracetamol AUC and t
1/2 were unchanged whatever the timing of its administration (before or after the lixisenatide injection). When administered 1 or 4  hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, C max of paracetamol was decreased by 29% and 31%, respectively and median t max was delayed by 2.0 and 1.75 hours, respectively. A further delay in t max and a reduced C max of paracetamol have been predicted with the 
20 mcg maintenance dose.  8 No effects on paracetamol C max and t max were observed when paracetamol was administered 1  hour before lixisenatide.  
 Based on these results, no dose adjustment for paracetamol is required but the delayed t max observed when paracetamol is administered 1 -4 hours after lixisenatide should be taken into account when a rapid onset of action is required for efficacy. 
 Oral contraceptives  Following administration of a single dose of an oral contraceptive medicinal product (ethinylestradiol 
0.03 mg/levonorgestrel 0.15  mg) 1  hour before or 11 hours after 10 mcg lixisenatide, the C max, AUC, t1/2 and t max of ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel were unchanged.  
 Administration of the oral contraceptive 1  hour before or 4 hours after lixisenatide did not affect AUC and t
1/2 of ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel, whereas C max of ethinylestradiol was decreased by 52% and 39%, respecti vely and C max of levonorgestrel was decreased by 46% and 20%, respectively and median t max was delayed by 1 to 3 hours. The reduction in C max is of limited clinical relevance and no dose adjustment for oral contraceptives is required.  Atorvastatin  When li xisenatide 20 mcg and atorvastatin 40 mg were co -administered in the morning for 6 days, the exposure to atorvastatin was not affected, while C max was decreased by 31% and t max was delayed by 
3.25 hours.  No such increase for tmax was observed when atorvas tatin was administered in the evening and lixisenatide in the morning but the AUC and C max of atorvastatin were increased by 27% and 66%, respectively.  
 These changes are not clinically relevant and , therefore, no dose adjustment for atorvastatin is required when co- administered with lixisenatide.  
 Warfarin and other coumarin derivatives After concomitant administration of warfarin 25 mg with repeated dosing of lixisenatide 20 mcg, there were no effec ts on AUC or INR (International Normalised Ratio) while Cmax was reduced by 19% and tmax was delayed by 7 hours. Based on these results, no dose adjustment for warfarin is required when co -administered with lixisenatide; however, frequent monitoring of INR in patients on warfarin and/or coumarin derivatives is recommended at the time of initiation or ending of lixisenatide treatment.  
 Digoxin After concomitant administration of lixisenatide 20 mcg and digoxin 0.25 mg at steady state, the AUC of digoxin was not affected. The t max of digoxin was delayed by 1.5 hour and the C max was reduced by  
26%. Based on these results, no dose adjustment for digoxin is required when co-administered with lixisenatide.  
 Ramipril After concomitant administration of lixisenatide 20 mcg and ramipril 5 mg during 6 days, the AUC of ramipril was increased by 21% while the C max was decreased by 63%. The AUC and C max of the active metabolite (ramiprilat) were not affected. The t max of ramipril and ramiprilat were delayed by approximately 2.5 hours. Based on these results, no dose adjustment for ramipril is required when co -administered with lixisenatide.  
 
