4.5 Interaction wit h other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of vemurafenib on Drug Metabolizing Enzymes  Results from an in vivo drug- drug interaction study in metastatic melanoma patients demonstrated that vemurafenib is a moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor and a CYP3A4 inducer.  
 Concomitant use of vemurafenib with agents metabolized by CYP1A2  with narrow therapeutic windows (e.g. agomelatine, alosetron, duloxetine, melatonin, ramelteon, tacrine, tizanidine, theophylline) is not recommended. If co- administration cannot be avoided, exercise caution, as vemurafenib may increase plasma exposure of CYP1A2 substrate drugs. Dose reduction of the concomitant CYP1A2 substrate drug may be considered, if clinically indicated.  Co-administration of vemurafenib increased the plasma exposure (A UC) of caffeine (CYP1A2 substrate) 2.6- fold. In another clinical trial, vemurafenib increased C max and AUC of a single 2 mg dose of tizanidine (CYP1A2 substrate) approximately 2.2- fold  and 4.7- fold, respectively.  
 Concomitant use of vemurafenib with agents metabolized by CYP3A4  with narrow therapeutic windows  is not recommended. If co- administration cannot be avoided, it needs to be considered that vemurafenib may decrease plasma concentrations of CYP3A4 substrates and thereby their efficacy may be impa ired. On this basis, the efficacy of contraceptive pills metaboli zed by CYP3A4 used concomitantly with vemurafenib might be decreased. Dose adjustments for CYP3A4 substrates with narrow therapeutic window may be considered, if clinically indicated (see sec tions 4.4 and 4.6).  In a clinical trial, co -administration of vemurafenib decreased the AUC of midazolam (CYP3A4 substrate) by an average 39% (maximum decrease up to 80%).   
 Mild induction of CYP2B6 by vemurafenib was noted in vitro at a vemurafenib concentration of 
10 µM . It is currently unknown whether vemurafenib at a plasma level of 100 µM observed in patients at steady state (approximately 50 µg/ml) may decrease plasma concentrations of concomitantly administered CYP2B6 substrates, such as bupropion.  
 Co-administration of vemurafenib resulted in an 18% increase in AUC of S -warfarin (CYP2C9 substrate).  Exercise caution and consider additional INR (international normalized ratio) monitoring when vemurafenib is used concomitantly with warfarin (see secti on 4.4).  
 Vemurafenib moderately inhibited CYP2C8 in vitro . The in vivo  relevance of this finding is unknown, but a risk for a clinically relevant effect on concomitantly administered CYP2C8 substrates cannot be excluded. Concomitant administration of CYP2C8 substrates with a narrow therapeutic window should be made with caut ion since vemurafenib may increase their concentrations.  
 Due to the long half -life of vemurafenib, the full inhibitory effect of vemurafenib on a concomitant medicinal product might not be observed before 8 days of vemurafenib treatment.  After cessation o f vemurafenib treatment, a washout of 8 days might be necessary to avoid an interaction with a subsequent treatment.  
 Radiation treatment Potentiation of radiation treatment toxicity has been reported in patients receiving vemurafenib (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).  In the majority of cases, patients received radiotherapy regimens greater than or equal to 2 Gy/day (hypofractionated regimens).  
 Effects of vemurafenib on drug transport systems  In vitro  studies have demonstrated that vemurafenib is an inhibitor o f the efflux transporters P-glycoprotein (P -gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP).  
 A clinical drug interaction study demonstrated that multiple oral doses of vemurafenib (960 mg twice daily) increased the exposure of a single oral dose of the P -gp substrate digoxin, approximately 1.8 and 1.5 fold for digoxin AUC last and C max, respectively.  9 
 Caution should be exercised when dosing vemurafenib concurrently with P -gp substrates (e.g. aliskiren, ambrisentan, colchicine, dabigatran etexilate, digoxin,  everolimus, fexofenadine, lapatinib, maraviroc, nilotinib, posaconazole, ranolazine, sirolimus, sitagliptin, talinolol, topotecan) and dose reduction of the concomitant medicinal product may be considered, if clinically indicated. Consider additional drug  level monitoring for P -gp substrate medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic index (NTI) (e.g. digoxin, dabigatran etexilate, aliskiren)  (see section 4.4).  
 The effects of vemurafenib on medicinal products that are substrates of BCRP are unknown.  It cannot be excluded that vemurafenib may increase the exposure of medicines transported by  BCRP (e.g. methotrexate, mitoxantrone, rosuvastatin).  Many anticancer medicinal products  are substrates of BCRP and therefore there is a theoretical risk for an int eraction with vemurafenib.  
 The possible effect of vemurafenib on other transporters is currently unknown. 
 Effects of concomitant medicines on vemurafenib  In vitro  studies suggest that CYP3A4 metabolism and glucuronidation are responsible for the  metaboli sm of vemurafenib. Biliary excretion appears to be another important elimination pathway. In vitro  studies have demonstrated that vemurafenib is a substrate of the efflux transporters P -gp and BCRP. It is currently unknown whether vemurafenib is a substrat e also to other transport proteins.  Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers or inhibitors/inducer of transport protein activity may alter vemurafenib concentrations.  
 Co-administration of itraconazole, a strong CYP3A4/Pgp  inhibi tor, increased steady state vemurafenib AUC by approximately 40%. Vemurafenib should be used with caution in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, glucuronidation and/or transport proteins (e.g. ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, ketoconazole, i traconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole, nefazodone, atazanavir). Patients  co-treated with such agents should be carefully monitored for safety and dose modifications applied if clinically indicated (see Table 1 in section 4.2).  
 In a clinical study, co -administration of a single dose 960 mg of vemurafenib with rifampicin, significantly  decreased the plasma exposure of vemurafenib by approximately 40%.  Concomitant administration of strong inducers of P -gp, glucuronidation, and/or C YP3A4 (e.g. rifampicin, rifabutin, carbamazepine, phenytoin or St John’s Wort [ Hypericum perforatum ]) may lead to suboptimal exposure to vemurafenib and should be avoided.  
 The effects of P -gp and BCRP inhibitors that are not also strong CYP3A4 inhibitors are unknown. It cannot be excluded that vemurafenib pharmacokinetics could be affected by such medicines through influence on P -gp (e.g. verapamil, cyclosporine, quinidine) or BCRP (e.g. cyclosporine, gefitinib).  
 
