4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Contraindication of concomitant use  Herbal preparations containing St. John's wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) are cont raindicated.  If a patient is already taking St John’s wort, this should be stopped before starting tivozanib treatment. The inducing effect of St John’s wort may persist for at least 2 weeks after cessation of treatment with St John’s wort (see section 4. 3). 
 Strong CYP3A4 inducers  In a clinical study in healthy volunteers, co -administration of a single 1 340 microgram dose of tivozanib with a strong CYP3A4 inducer at steady -state (rifampin 600  mg once daily) decreased the average half -life of tivozanib from 121 to 54  hours which was associated with a decrease in the  single dose AUC 0-∞ of 48% compared with AUC 0-∞ in the absence of rifampin.  Average C max and AUC 0-24hr were not significantly affected (8% increase and 6% decrease respectively). The clinical  effects of strong CYP3A4 inducers on repeated daily dosing of tivozanib has not been studied but potentially the average time to reach steady -state and the average steady -state serum concentration of tivozanib may be reduced, due to the reduction in half -life.  It is recommended that concomitant administration of tivozanib with strong CYP3A4 inducers,  if used,  should be undertaken with caution.    Moderate CYP3A4 inducers are not expected to have a clinically relevant effect on  tivozanib  exposure .  
 CYP3A4 inhibitors  In a clinical study in healthy volunteers, co -administration of tivoza nib with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, ketoconazole (400  mg once  daily ), had no influence on tivozanib serum concentrations (C max or AUC); therefore, tivozanib exposure is unlikely to be altered by CYP3A4 inhibitors.  
 Medicinal products  for which  intestinal absorption i s restricted by BCRP  Tivozanib inhibits the transporter protein BCRP in vitro , but the clinical relevance of this finding is unknown  (see section 5.2) .  Caution should be exercised if tivozanib is co -administered with rosuvastatin . Alternative ly, a statin not subject to restrict ion of  intestinal absorption by BCRP should be considered.  Patients taking an oral BCRP substrate with a clinically -relevant efflu x interaction in the gut should ensure that a suitable time window (e.g. 2  hours) is applied between administration of tivozanib and the BCRP substrate.  
 Contraceptives  It is currently unknown whether tivozanib may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, and therefore women using hormonal contraceptives should add a barrier method (see section 4.6).  
 
