4.5 and 5.2).Data from phase II clinical trials, where ge fitinib and vinorelbine have been used concomitantly, indicate that gefitinib may exacerbate the neutropenic effect of vinorelbine.Lactose 
 IRESSA contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lacta se deficiency or glucose -galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product.Sodium 
 IRESSA contains less than 1 mmol (23 mg) of sodium per tablet, that is to say it is essentially 
‘sodium -free.’Further precautions for use 
 Patients should be advised to see k medical advice immediately if they experience severe or persistent diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting or anorexia as these may indirectly lead to dehydration. These symptoms should be managed as clinically indicated (see section 4.8).Patients presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of keratitis such as acute or worsening: eye inflammation, lacrimation, light sensitivity, blurred vision, eye pain and/or red eye should be referredprom ptly to an ophthalmology specialist.If a diagnosis of ulcerative kerat itis is confirmed, treatment with gefitinib should be interrupted, and if symptoms do not resolve, or if symptoms recur on reintroduction of gefitinib , perm anent discontinuation s hould be considered.In a phase I/II trial studying the use of gefitinib and radiation in paediatric patients, with newly diagnosed brain stem glioma or incompletely resected supratentorial malignant glioma, 4 cases (1fatal) of Central Nervous System (CN S) haemorrhages were reported from 45 patients enrolled. A further case of CN S haemorrhage has been reported in a child with an ependymoma from a trial with gefitinib alone. An increased risk of cerebral haemorrhage in adult patients with NSCLC receiving gefitinib has not been established.Gastrointestinal perforation has been rep orted in patients taking gefitinib. In most cases this is associated with other known risk factors, including concomitant medications such as steroids or NSAIDS, underlying histor y of GI ulceration, age, smoking or bowel metastases at sites of perforation.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 The metabolism of gefitinib is via the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP3A4 (predominantly) and via CYP 2D6.Active substances that may increase gefitinib plasma concentrations 
 In vitro studies have shown that gefitinib is a substrate of p -glycoprotein (Pgp). Available data do not suggest any clinical consequences to this in vitro finding.Substances that inhibit CYP3A4 may decrease the clearance of gefitinib. Concomitant administr ation with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 activity (e.g. ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, protease inhibitors, clarithromycin, telithromycin) may increase gefitinib plasma c oncentrations. The increase may be clinically relevant since adverse reaction s are related to dose and exposure. The increase might be higher in individual patients with CYP2D6 poor metaboliser genotype. Pre -treatment with itraconazole (a potent CYP3A4 inh ibitor) resulted in an 80% increase in the mean AUC of gefitinib in healthy v olunteers. In situations of concomitant treatment with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 the patient should be closely monitored for gefitinib adverse reactions.Ther e are no data on c oncomitant treatment with an inhibitor of CYP2D6 but potent inhibitors of thi s enzyme might cause increased plasma concentrations of gefitinib in CYP2D6 extensive metabolisers by about 2 -fold (see section 5.2). If concomitant treatment with a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor is initiated, the patient should be closely monitored for adverse reactions.Active substances that may reduce gefitinib plasma concentrations 
 Substances that are inducers of CYP3A4 activity may increase metabolism and decrease gefitinib plasma concentrations and thereby reduce the efficacy of gefitinib . Concomitant med icinal products that induce CYP3A4 (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampicin, barbiturates or St John’s wort /Hypericum perforatum ) should be avoided. Pre -treatment with rifampic in (a potent CYP3A4 inducer) in healthy volunteers reduced mean gefitinib AUC by 83% (see section 4.4).Substances that cause significant sustained elevation in gastric p 
 H may reduce gefitinib plasma concentrations and thereby reduce the efficacy of gefit inib. High doses of short -acting antacids may have a similar effect if taken regularly close in time to administration of gefitinib. Concomitant administration of gefitinib with ranitidine at a dose that caused sustained elevations in gastric p 
 H ≥5 resulted in a reduced mean gefitinib AUC by 47% in healthy volunteers (see section 4.4 and 5.2).Active substances that may have their plasma concentrations altered by gefitinib 
 In vitro studies have shown that gefitinib has limited potential to inhibit CYP2D6. In a clinical trial in patients, gefitinib was co -administered with metoprol ol (a CYP2D6 substrate). This resulted in a 35% increase in exposure to metoprolol. Such an increase might potentially be relevant for CYP2D6 substrates with narrow therapeutic in dex. When the use of CYP2D6 substrates are considered in combination with gef itinib, a dose modification of the CYP2D6 substrate should be considered especially for products with a narrow therapeutic window.Gefitinib inhibits the transporter protein BCRP in vitro , but the clinical relevance of this finding is unknown.Other pote ntial interactions 
 INR elevations and/or bleeding events have been reported in some patients concomitantly taking warfarin (see section 4.4).
