4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 In infants, Nimenrix can be given concomitantly with combined DTa 
 P -HBV -IPV/Hib vaccines  and with 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.  
 From age 1 year and above, Nimenrix can be given concomitantly with any of the following vaccines: hepatitis A (HAV) and hepatitis B (HBV) vaccines, measles - mumps - rubella (MMR) vaccine, measles - mumps - rubella - varicella ( MMR V) vaccine, 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine or unadjuvanted seasonal influenza vaccine . 
 In the second year of life, Nimenrix can also be given concomitantly with combined diphtheria - tetanus - acellular pertussis (DTa 
 P) vaccines, including combination DTa 
 P vaccines with he patitis B, inactivated polio virus or Haemophi lus influenzae  type b  (HBV, IPV or Hib)  such as DTa 
 P -HBV -IPV/Hib vaccine , and 13 -valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.  
 In individuals aged 9 to 25 years, Nimenrix can be given concomitantly with human papillomavirus bivalent [Type 16 and 18] vaccine, recombinant (HPV2).  
 Whenever possible, Nimenrix and a TT containing vaccine, such as DTa 
 P -HBV -IPV/Hib vaccine, should be co -administered or Nimenrix should be administered at least one month before the TT containing vaccine.  
 One month after co -administration with a 10 -valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, lower Geometric Mean antibody Concentrations (GMCs) and opsonophagocytic assay  (OPA) antibody GMTs  were observed for one pneumococcal serotype (18C conjugated to tetanus tox oid carrier protein). The c linical relevance of this observation is unknown. There was no impact of co-administration on immune responses to  the other nine pneumococcal serotypes.  
 One month after co -administration with a combined tetanus toxoid, reduced d iphtheria toxoid and acellular pertussis vaccine, adsorbed (Tdap) in subjects aged 9 to 25 years, lower GMCs were observed to each pertussis antigen (pertussis toxoid [PT], filamentous haemagglutinin [FHA] and pertactin [PRN]). More than 98% of subjects ha d anti -PT, FHA or PRN concentrations above the assay cut -off thresholds. The clinical relevance of these observations is unknown. There was no 6 impact of co -administration on immune responses to Nimenrix or the tetanus or diphtheria antigens included in Tda p. 
 If Nimenrix is to be given at the same time as another injectable vaccine, the vaccines should always be administered at different injection sites.  
 It may be expected that in patients receiving immunosuppressive treatment , an adequate response may not be elicited.  
 
