4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 Concomitant use not recommended  
 QT prolonging medicinal products  
‒ Cardiovascular QT prolonging medicinal products (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide, bepridil, sotalol, ibutilide, amiodarone).  
‒ Non-cardiovascular QT prolonging medicinal products (e.g. pimozide, ziprasidone, sertindole, mefloquine, halofantrine, pentamidine, cisapride, intravenous erythromycin).  The concomitant use of cardiovascular and non -cardiovascular QT prolonging medicinal p roducts with ivabradine should be avoided since QT prolongation may be exacerbated by  heart rate reduction. If the combination appears necessary, close cardiac monitoring is  needed (see section 4.4).  
 Concomitant use with precaution  
 Potassium -depleting diuretics (thiazide diuretics and loop diuretics)  Hypokalaemia can increase the risk of arrhythmia. As ivabradine may cause bradycardia, the  resulting combination of hypokal aemia and bradycardia is a predisposing factor to the onset of  severe arrhythmias, especially in patients with long QT syndrome, whether congenital or  substance -induced. 
 Pharmacokinetic interactions  
 Ivabradine is metabolised by CYP3A4 only and it is a very weak inhibitor of this cytochrome. Ivabradine was shown not to influence the metabolism and plasma concentrations of other CYP3A4 substrates (mild, moderate and strong inhibitors). CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers are liable to interact with ivabradine and influence its metabolism and pharmacokinetics to  a clinically significant extent. Interaction studies have established that CYP3A4 inhibitors increase ivabradine plasma concentrations, while inducers decrease them. Increased plasma concentrations of ivabradine may be associated with the risk of  excessive bradycardia  (see section 4.4).  
 Contraindication of concomitant use  
 Potent CYP3A4 inhibitors  The concomitant use of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as azole antifungals (ketoconazole, itraconazole), macrolide antibiotics (clarithromycin, erythromycin per os, josamycin, telithromycin), HIV protease inhibitors (nelfinavir, ritonavir) and nefazodone is  contraindicated (see section 4.3). The potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ketoconazole (200  mg once daily) and  josamycin (1 g twice daily) increased ivabradine mean plasma exposure by 7 to 8-fold. 
 Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors   Specific interaction studies in healthy  volunteers and patients have shown that the combination of ivabradine with the heart rate reducing agents diltiazem or  verapamil resulted in  an increase in ivabradine 8 
 exposure (2  to 3-fold increase in AUC) and  an additional heart rate reduction of  5 bpm. The concomitant use of ivabradine with these medicinal products is contraindicated  (see section  4.3). 
 Concomitant use not recommended  Ivabradine exposure was increased by 2 -fold following the co -administration with grapefruit juice. Therefore the intake of grapefruit juice should be avoided.  
 Concomitant use with precautions  
 Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors  The concomitant use of ivabradine with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. fluconazole) may be considered at the starting dose of 2.5  mg twice d aily and if  resting heart rate is above 70 bpm, with monitoring of heart rate.  
 CYP3A4 inducers  CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, barbiturates, phenytoin, Hypericum perforatum  [St. John’s Wort]) may decrease ivabra dine exposure and activity. The  concomitant use of CYP3A4 inducing medicinal produc ts may require an adjustment of  the dose of ivabradine. The  combination of ivabradine 10  mg twice daily with St. John’s Wort was shown to reduce ivabradine AUC by half. The intake of St . John’s Wort should  be restricted during the treatment with ivabradine.  
 Other concomitant use  Specific interaction studies have shown no clinically significant effect of the following medicinal products on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ivabradine: proton pump inhibitors (omeprazole,  lansoprazole), sildenafil, HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors (simvastatin), dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (amlodipine, lacidi pine), digoxin and warfarin. In  addition there was no  clinically significant effect of ivabra dine on the pharmacokinetics of  simvastatin, amlodipine, lacidipine, on the pharmacok inetics and pharmacodynamics of  digoxin, warfarin and on  the pharmacodynamics of  aspirin. In pivotal phase III clinical trials the following medicinal produc ts were routinely comb ined with ivabradine with no evidence of safety concerns: angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists, beta-blockers, diuretics, anti -aldosterone agents, short and long acting nitrates, HMG Co 
 A reductase inhibitors, fibrates, proto n pump inhibitors, oral antidiabetics, aspirin and other anti -platelet medicinal products.  
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
