4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Anti-neoplastic, immune -modulating , or immunosuppressive therapies 
 Ponesimod has not been studied in combination with anti -neoplastic, immune -modulating, or immunosuppressive therapies. Caution should be used during concomitant administration because of the risk of additive immune effects during such therapy and in the weeks follo wing administration (see section 4.4).Anti-arrhythmic medicinal products , QT prolonging medicinal products , medicinal products that may decrease heart rate 
 Ponesimod has not been studied in patients taking QT prolonging medicinal products ( see section 4.4).Beta-blockers 
 The negative chronotropic effect of co -administration of ponesimod and propranolol was evaluated in a dedicated pharmacodynamics safety study. The addition of ponesimod to propranolol at steady -state has an additive effect on HR effect .In a drug -drug interaction study, the up -titration regimen of ponesimod (see section 4.2) was administered to subjects receiving propranolol (80 mg) once daily at steady -state. Compared to ponesimod alone, the combination with propranolol after the firs t dose of ponesimod (2 mg) had a 
12.4bpm (90% CI: -15.6 to -9.1) decrease in mean hourly heart rate and at the first dose of ponesimod (20mg) after up -titration a 7. 4bpm (90% CI: -10.9 to -3.9) decrease in mean hourly heart rate. No significant changes in pharmacokinetics of ponesimod or propranolol were observed.Vaccines 
 Vaccinations may be less effective if administered while being treated with ponesimod and up to 
1week after its discontinuation (see section 4.4).The use o f live attenuated vaccines may carry the risk of infection and should therefore be avoided during ponesimod treatment and up to 1 week after its discontinuation of treatment with ponesimod(see section 4.4).Effect of other medicinal products on ponesimod 
 Medicinal products that are inhibitors of major CYP or UGT enzymes are unlikely to impact the pharmacokinetics of ponesimod (see section 5.2).No dose adjustment is needed when ponesimod is co -administered with strong CYP3A4 and UGT1A1 inducers. Co-administration of carbamazepine 300 mg twice daily (a strong CYP3A4 and UGT1A1 12inducer) at steady -state decreased ponesimod C maxby 19.6% and AUC by 25.7%. This decrease is not clinically relevant.Ponesimod is not a substrate of P -gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 or OA TP1B3 transporters. Medicinal products that are inhibitors of these transporters are unlikely to impact the pharmacokinetics of ponesimod.Effect of ponesimod on other medicinal products 
 Ponesimod and its metabolites are unlikely to show any clinically relevant drug -drug interaction potential for CYP or UGT enzymes, or transporters (see section 5.2).Oral contraceptives 
 Co-administration of ponesimod, with an oral hormonal contraceptive (containing 1 mg norethisterone/norethindrone and 3 5mcg ethinyl e stradiol) showed no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction with ponesimod. Therefore, concomitant use of ponesimod is not expected to decrease the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives. No interaction studies have been performed with oral contracept ives containing other progestogens; however, an effect of ponesimod on their exposure is not expected.Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
