4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Effects of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of abemaciclib   
 Abemaciclib is primarily metabolised by CYP3A 4. 
 CYP3A4 i nhibitors  Co-administration of abemaciclib with CYP3A 4 inhibitors can increase plasma concentrations of abemaciclib. In patients with advanced and/or metastatic cancer, co- administration of the CYP3A 4 inhibitor clarithromycin resulted in a 3.4- fold increase in the plasma exposure of abemaciclib and a 
2.5-fold increase in the combined unbound potency adjusted plasma exposure of abemaciclib and its active metabolites.  
 Use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors together with abemaciclib should be avoided. If strong CYP3A4 inhibitors need to be  co-administered, the dose of abemaciclib should be reduced (see s ection  4.2), followed by careful monitoring of toxicity. Examples of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors include, but not limited to: clarithromycin,  itraconazole , ketoconazole, lopinavir/ritonavir, posaconazole or voriconazole . Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit juice.  
 No dose adjustment is necessary for patients treated with moderate or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. There should, however , be close monitoring for signs of toxicity.  
 CYP3A4 i nducers  Co-administration of abemaciclib with the strong CYP3A 4 inducer rifampicin decreased the plasma concentration of abemaciclib by 95 % and unbound potency adjusted plasma concentration of abemaciclib plus its active metabolites by 77  % based on AUC
0-∞. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4  inducers (including, but not limited to: carbamazepine,  phenytoin, rifampicin and St. John’s wort) should be avoided due to the risk of decreased efficacy of abemaciclib.  
 9 Effects of abemaciclib on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products   
 Medicinal products that are substrates of transporters  Abemaciclib and its major active metabolites inhibit the renal transporters organic cation transporter  2 (OCT2), multidrug and extrusion toxin protein (MATE1), and MATE2- K. In vivo  interactions of abemaciclib with clinically relevant substrates of these transporters, such as dofetilide or  creatinine, may occur (see section  4.8). In a clinical drug interaction study with metformin (substrate of OCT2, MATE1 and 2) co- administered with 400 mg abemaciclib, a small but not clinically relevant increase (37 %) in metformin plasma exposure was observed. This was found to be due to reduced renal secretion with unaffected glomerular filtration.  
 In healthy subjects, co- administration of abemaciclib and the P -glycoprotein (P -gp) substrate loperamide resulted in an increase in loperamide plasma exposure of 9  % based on AUC
0-∞ and 35 % based on C max. This was not considered to be clinically relevant. However, based on the in vitro  inhibition of P -gp and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) observed with abemaciclib, in vivo  interactions of abemaciclib with narrow therapeutic index substrates of these transporters, such as digoxin or dabigatran etex ilate, may occur.  
 In a clinical study in patients with breast cancer, there was no clinically -relevant pharmacokinetic drug interaction between abemaciclib and anastrozole, fulvestrant, exemestane, letrozole or tamoxifen.  
 It is currently unknown whether abemaciclib may reduce the effectiveness of systemically acting hormonal contraceptives.  
 