4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 No interactions between the two components of this fixed dose combinations have been observed in clinical studies. Interactions linked to the combination 
 No drug interaction s tudies have been performed.To be taken into account with concomitant use Other antihypertensive medicinal products The blood pressure lowering effect of telmisartan/amlodipine can be increased by concomitant use of other antihypertensive medicinal pro ducts.Medicinal products with blood pressure lowering potential 
 Based on their pharmacological properties it can be expected that the following medicinal products may potentiate the hypotensive effects of all antihypertensives including this medicinal product , e.g. baclofen, amifostine, neuroleptics or antidepressants. Furthermore, orthostatic hypotension may be aggravated by alcohol .Corticosteroids (systemic route)Reduction of the antihypertensive effect.Interactions linked to telmisartan Concomitant use not recommended 
 Potassium sparing diuretics or potassium supplements 
 Angiotensin II receptor blocker s such as telmisartan, attenuate diuretic induced potassium loss. Potassium sparing diuretics e.g. spirinolactone, eplerenone, triamterene, or amiloride, potassium supplements, or potassium -containing salt substitutes may lead to a significant increase in serum potassium. If concomitant use is indicated because of documented hypokalaemia, they should be used with caution and with frequent mon itoring of serum potassium.Lithium 
 Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, and with angiotensin II receptor blocker s,including telmisartan. If use of the combination proves necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. Other antihypertensive agents acting on the renin -angiotensin -aldosterone system (RAAS)Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin -angiotensin -aldosterone system (RAAS) through the combined use of ACE -inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS -acting agent (see sections 
4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).7Concomitant use requiring caution 
 Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory medicinal products 
 NSAIDs (i.e. acetylsalicylic acid at anti -inflammatory dose regimens, COX -2 inhibitors and non -selective NSAIDs) may reduce the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin IIreceptor blocker s.In some patients with compromised renal function (e.g. dehydrated patients or elderly patients with compromised renal function), the co -administration of angiotensin IIreceptor blocker s and medicinal products that inhibit cyclo -oxygenase may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible acute ren al failure, which is usually reversible. Therefore, the combination should be administered with caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and consideration should be given to monitoring of renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy and periodically thereafter.Ramipril 
 In onestudy the co -administration of telmisartan and ramipril led to an increase of up to 2.5 fold in the AUC 0-24 and C max of ramipril and ramiprilat. The clinical relevance of this observation i s not known.Concomitant use to be taken into account 
 Digoxin 
 When telmisartan was co -administered with digoxin, median increases in digoxin peak plasma concentration (49 %) and in trough concentration (20 %) were observed. When initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing telmisartan, monitor digoxin levels in order to maintain levels within the therapeutic range.Interactions linked to amlodipine 
 Concomitant use requiring caution 
 CYP3A4 inhibitors 
 Concomitant use of amlodipine with strong or moderate C YP3A4 inhibitors (protease inhibitors, azole antifungals, macrolides like erythromycin or clarithromycin, verapamil or diltiazem) may give rise to significant increase in amlodipine exposure resulting in an increased risk of hypotension. The clinical trans lation of these PK variations may be more pronounced in the elderly. Clinical monitoring and dose adjustment may thus be required.CYP3A4 inducers 
 Upon co -administration of known inducers of the CYP3A4, the plasma concentration of amlodipinemay vary. Therefore, blood pressure should be monitored and dose regulation considered bothduring and after concomitant medication particularly with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g.rifampicin, hypericum perforatum).Dantrolene (infusion)In animals, lethal ventricular fibrillation and cardiovascular collapse are observed in association with hyperkalemia after administration of verapamil and intravenous dantrolene. Due to risk of hyperkalemia, it is recommended that the coadministration of calcium channel blo ckers such as amlodipine be avoided in patients susceptible to malignant hyperthermia and in the management of malignant hyperthermia.Grapefruit and grapefruit juice 
 Administration of amlodipine with grapefruit or grapefruit juice is not recommended sinc e bioavailability may be increased in certain patients resulting in increased blood pressure lowering effects.  8Concomitant use to be taken into account 
 Tacrolimus 
 There is a risk of increased tacrolimus blood levels when co -administered with amlodipine but the pharmacokinetic mechanism of this interaction is not fully understood. In order to avoid toxicity of tacrolimus, administration of amlodipine in a patient treated with tacrolimus requires monitoring of tacrolimus blood levels and dose adjustment o f tacrolimus when appropriate.Cyclosporine 
 No drug interaction studies have been conducted with cyclosporine and amlodipine in healthy volunteers or other populations with the exception of renal transplant patients, where variable trough concentration increases (average 0% -40%) of cyclosporine were observed. Consideration should be given for monitoring cyclosporine levels in renal transplant patients on amlodipine, and cyclosporine dose reductions should be made as necessary.Mechanistic Target of Ra pamycin (m 
 TOR) Inhibitorsm 
 TOR inhibitors such as sirolimus, temsirolimus, and everolimus are CYP3A substrates. Amlodipine is a weak CYP3A inhibitor. With concomitant use of m 
 TOR inhibitors, amlodipine may increase exposure of m 
 TOR inhibitors.Simvastatin 
 Co-administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with simvastatin 80 mg resulted in an increase in exposure to simvastatin up to 77 %compared to simvastatin alone. Therefore, the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine should be limited to 20 mg daily.
