4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Approximately 70 –80% of pirfenidone is metabolised via CYP1A2 with minor contributions from other CYP isoenzymes including CYP2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 2E1.  
 Consumption of grapefruit juice is associated with inhibition of CYP1A2 and should be avoided during treatment with pirfenidone.  
 Fluvoxamine and inhibitors of CYP1A2 
 In a Phase 1 study, the co -administration of pirfenidone  and fluvoxamine (a strong inhibitor of CYP 1A2 with inhibitory effects on other CYP isoenzymes [CYP2C9, 2C19, and 2D6]) resulted in a 
4 - fold increase in exposure to pirfenidone in non-smokers.  
 Pirfenidone Viatris is contraindicated in patients with concomitant use of fluvoxamine (see section  4.3). Fluvoxamine should be discontinued prior to the initiation of Pirfenidone Viatris therapy and avoided during Pirfenidone Viatris therapy due to the reduced clearance of pirfenidone. Other therapies that are inhibitors of both CYP1A2 and one or more other CYP isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of pirfenidone (e.g. CYP2C9, 2C19, and 2D6) should be avoided during pirfenidone treatment.  
 In vitro and in vivo extrapolations indicate that strong and selective inhibitors of CYP1A2 (e.g. enoxacin) have the  potential to increase the exposure to pirfenidone by approximately 2 to 4- fold. If concomitant use of Pirfenidone Viatris  with a strong and selective inhibitor of CYP1A2 cannot be avoided, the dose of pirfenidone should be reduced to 801 mg daily ( 267 mg, three times a day). Patients should be closely monitored for emergence of adverse reactions associated with Pirfenidone Viatris  therapy. Discontinue Pirfenidone Viatris  if necessary (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
 Co-administration of pirfenidone  and 750 mg of ciprofloxacin (a moderate inhibitor of CYP1A2) increased the exposure to pirfenidone by 81%. If ciprofloxacin at the dose of 750 mg two times a day cannot be avoided, the dose of pirfenidone should be reduced to 1 602 mg daily 534 mg, three times a day). Pirfenidone Viatris  should be used with caution when ciprofloxacin is used at a dose of 250 mg or 500 mg once or two times a day. 7  Pirfenidone Viatris  should be used with caution in patients treated with other moderate inhibitors of CYP1A2 (e.g. amiodarone, propafenone ). 
 Special care should also be exercised if CYP1A2 inhibitors are being used concomitantly with potent inhibitors of one or more other CYP isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of pirfenidone such as CYP2C9 (e.g. amiodarone, fluconazole), 2C19 (e.g. chloramphenicol) and 2D6 (e.g. fluoxetine, paroxetine). 
 Cigarette smoking and inducers of CYP1A2 
 A Phase 1 interaction study evaluated the effect of cigarette smoking (CYP1A2 induce r) on the pharmacokinetics of pirfenidone. The exposure to pirfenidone in smokers was 50% of that observed in non-smokers. Smoking has the potential to induce hepatic enzyme production and thus increase medicinal product clearance and decrease exposure. Concomitant use of strong inducers of CYP1A2 including smoking should be avoided during Pirfenidone Viatris  therapy based on the observed relationship between cigarette smoking and its potential to induce CYP1A2. Patients should be encouraged to discontinue use of strong inducers of CYP1A2 and to stop smoking before and during treatment with pirfenidone. 
 In the case of moderate inducers of CYP1A2 (e.g. omeprazole), concomitant use may theoretically result in a lowering of pirfenidone plasma levels. 
 Co-administration of medicinal products that act as potent inducers of both CYP1A2 and the other CYP isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of pirfenidone (e.g. rifampicin) may result in significant lowering of pirfenidone plasma levels. These medicinal products should be avoided whenever possible. 
 
