4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Co-administration of 100 mg alogliptin once daily and 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride twice daily for 6  days in healthy subjects had no clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of alogliptin or metformin.  
 Specific pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies have not been performed with Vipdomet. The following section outlines the interactions observed with the individual compone nts of Vipdomet  (alogliptin/metformin)  as reported in their respective Summary of Product Characteristics.  
 Interactions with metformin  
 Concomitant use not recommended  Alcohol  Alcohol intoxication is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidos is, particularly in case of fasting, malnutrition or hepatic impairment.  
 Iodinated contrast agents  Vipdomet  must be discontinued prior to or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarted until at least 48  hours after, provided that renal function has been re -evaluated and found to be stable, see sections 4.2 and 4.4.  
 Cationic medicinal products  Cationic substances that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g. cimetidine) may interact with metformin by competing for common renal tubular tra nspor t systems. A study conducted in seven normal healthy volunteers showed that cimetidine (400  mg twice daily) increased metformin systemic exposure (area under the curve, AUC) by 50% and Cmax by 81%. Therefore, close monitoring of glycaemic control, dos e adj ustment within the recommended posology and changes in diabetic treatment should be considered when cationic medicinal products that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion are co -administered.  
 Combination requiring precautions for use  Some medicin al products can adversely affect renal function which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo -oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, angiotensin -converting enzyme  (ACE ) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists and di uretics, especially loop diuretics. When starting or using such products in combination with metformin, close monitoring of renal function is necessary.  
 Medicinal products with intrinsic hyperglycaemic activity  Glucocorticoids (given by systemic and local  routes), beta- 2-agonists and diuretics (see also section  4.4) have intrinsic hyperglycaemic activity. The patient should be informed and more frequent blood glucose monitoring performed, especially at the beginning of treatment with such medicinal 8 product s. If necessary, the dose of Vipdomet should be adjusted during therapy with the other medicinal product and upon its discontinuation.  
 ACE inhibitors  ACE inhibitors may decrease blood glucose levels. If necessary, the dose of Vipdomet should be adjusted during therapy with the other medicinal product and upon its discontinuation.  
 Effects of other medicinal products on alogliptin  
 Alogliptin is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine and metabolism by the cytochrome (CYP) P450 enzyme system  is negligible  (see section  5.2). Interactions with CYP inhibitors are thus not expected and have not been shown.  
 Results from clinical interaction studies also demonstrate that there are no clinically relevant effects of gemfibrozil (a CYP2C8/9 inhibitor), fluconazol e (a CYP2C9 inhibitor), ketoconazole (a CYP3A4 inhibitor), cyclosporine (a p -glycoprotein inhibitor), voglibose (an alpha -glucosidase inhibitor), digoxin, metformin, cimetidine, pioglitazone or atorvastatin on the pharmacokinetics of alogliptin.  
 Effects o f alogliptin on other medicinal products  
 In vitro  studies suggest that alogliptin does not inhibit nor induce CYP  450 isoforms at concentrations achieved with the  recommended dose of 25 mg alogliptin (see section  5.2). Interaction with substrates of CYP 4 50 is oforms are thus not expected and have not been shown. In studies in  vitro , alogliptin was found to be neither a substrate nor an inhibitor of key transporters associated with disposition of the active substance in the kidney: organic anion transporter -1, organic anion transporter -3 or organic cationic transporter -2 (OCT2). Furthermore, clinical data do not suggest interaction with p-glycoprotein inhibitors or substrates . 
 In clinical studies, alogliptin had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinet ics of caffeine, (R)-warfarin, pioglitazone, glyburide, tolbutamide, (S)-warfarin, dextromethorphan, atorvastatin, midazolam, an oral contraceptive (norethindrone and ethinyl oestradiol), digoxin, fexofenadine , metformin, or cimetidine, thus providing in vivo evidence of a low propensity to cause interaction with substrates of CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, p- glycoprotein, and OCT2.  
 In healthy subjects, alogliptin had no effect on prothrombin time or International Normalised Ratio (INR) when administ ered concomitantly with warfarin.  
 Combination of alogliptin with other anti -diabetic medicinal products  
 Results from studies with metformin, pioglitazone (thiazolidinedione), voglibose (alpha -glucosidase inhibitor) and glyburide (sulphonylurea) have shown no  clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions.  
 