4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other for ms of interaction  
 Diuretics and other antihypertens ive agents : other antihyperten sive agents may increase the hypotensive effects of irbesart an; how ever Karvea has been safely administered with other antihypertensive agents, such as beta-blockers, long- acting calcium channel blockers, and thiazide  5 diuretic s. Prior treatment with high d ose diuretics may result in volume depletion and a risk of hypotension when initiating therapy with Karvea (see section  4.4). 
 Aliskiren -containing products  or ACE -inhibitors: clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin -angiotensin- aldost erone system (RAAS) through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal fai lure) compared to the use of a single RAAS- acting agent (see sectio ns 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
 Potassium supplements and potassium-sparing diuretics:  based on experience with the use of other medicinal products that affect the reni n-angiotensin system, concomit ant use of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplement s, salt  substitutes containing potassium or other medicinal products that may increase serum potassium levels (e.g . heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium and is, therefore, not recomme nded (see section  4.4). 
 Lithium:  reversible increases in se rum lit hium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angio tensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Similar effects have been very rarely reported w ith irbesartan so far. Therefore, this combination is not  recomm ended (see section  4.4). If the combination proves necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended.  
 Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs : when angiotensin II antagoni sts are administered simultaneously with non- steroidal anti -inflamm atory drugs (i.e. selective COX-2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (>  3 g/day) and non- selective NSAIDs), a ttenuation of the antihypertensive effect may occur.  
 As with ACE inhibitors, concomi tant use of angiotensin II antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an increased risk of worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, and an increase in serum potassium, especially in patients with poor pr e-existing renal function. The combination should be administered with caution, especially  in the  elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and consideration should be given to monitoring renal func tion after initiation of concomitant therapy, and periodically thereafter.  
 Repagl inide: irbesartan has the potential  to inhibit OATP1B1. In a  clinical study, it was reported that irbesartan increased the C max and AUC of repaglinide (substrate of OATP1B1) by 1 .8-fold and 
1.3-fold, respectively, when administered 1 hour before repaglinid e. In another study, no relevant pharmacokinetic interactio n was re porte d, when the two drugs were co-administered. Therefore, dose adjustment o f antidiabetic treatment such as repaglinide  may be required  (see section 4.4). 
 Additional information on irbes artan interactions : in clinical studies, the pharmacokineti c of irb esartan is not affected by hydrochlorothiazide. Irbesartan is mainly metabolised by CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by glucuronidation. No significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic inter actions were observed when irbesartan was coadministered with warfa rin, a medicinal product metabolised by CYP2C9. The effects of CYP2C9 inducers such as rifampicin on the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan  have not been evaluated. The pharmacokinetic of digoxin was not altered by coadministration of irbesartan.  
 