4.5 Interaction with other medic inal products and other forms of int eraction  
 The information in this section is based on binding affinity between sugammadex  and other medicinal products, non- clinical exper iments,  clinical studies  and simulations using a model taking into account the pharm acodynam ic effect of neuromuscular blocking agents and the phar macokinetic interaction between  neuromuscular blocking agents and sugammadex. Based on these data, no clinical ly significant pharmacodynam ic interaction with other medicinal products is expec ted, with  exception of the following: For toremifene and fusidic acid displacement interactions could not be exclude d (no clinica lly relevant 7 
 capturing interactions are expe cted).  For hormonal contracept ives a clinically relevant capturing interaction could not be  excluded (no displacement interactions are expected).  
 Interactions potentially affecting the efficacy of sugammadex (displacement interactions)  
 Due to the adminis tration of certain medicinal products after  sugammadex, theoretically  rocuronium or vecuronium could  be displaced  from  sugammadex. As a result recu rrenc e of neurom uscular blockade might be observed. In this situa tion the patient must be ventilated. Administration of the medicinal product which caused displacement should be stopped in case of an i nfusion. In situations when potential displacement int eractions can be anticipated, patients  should be carefully monitored  for signs of recurrence of neuromu scular blockade (approximately up to 15 minutes) after parenteral administration of another medicinal product occurring within a period of 7.5 hours after sugammadex administration.  Toremifene For toremif ene, which  has a relatively high binding affinit y for suga mmade x and for which relatively high plasma concentrations mi ght be present, some displacem ent of vecuronium or rocuronium from the complex with sugammadex could o ccur. Clinicians should be aware t hat the  recove ry of the T 4/T1 ratio to 0.9 could therefore be delayed in patients who hav e received toremifene on the same day of the operation.  Intravenous administration of fusidic acid The use of fus idic acid  in the pre-operative phase may give some delay in the recovery  of the  T4/T1 ratio to 0.9. No recurrence  of neuromuscular blockade i s expected in the post- operative phase, since the infusion rate of fusidic acid is over  a period of several hours and the blood levels are cumulative over 2-
3 days. For re- administr ation of sugammadex see section 4.2. 
 Interactions potentially affecting the efficacy of other medic inal products (capturing interactions) 
 Due to the administrati on of sugammadex, certai n medicinal products could become less effective due to a lowering of the (free) plasma concentrations. If such a situation is observed, the cl inician is advised to consider the re- administration of the medicinal product, the admini stration of a therapeutical ly equivalen t medicinal product (preferably from a different chemical class) and/or non - pharmacological interventions as appropriate.  
 Hormonal contraceptives  The interaction between 4  mg/k g suga mmade x and a progestogen was pre dicted to lead to a decrease in progestogen exposure (34 % of  AUC)  similar  to the decrease seen when  a daily dose of an oral contraceptive i s taken 12 hours too late, which might lead to a reduction in effectiveness. For oestrogens, the effect is expected to  be lower. Therefore the ad ministration of a bolus dose of sugammadex is considered to be equ ivalent to one missed daily dose of oral contraceptive steroids (either co mbined or progestogen only). If sugammadex is administ ered at t he same day as an oral contraceptive is taken reference is made to miss ed dose advice  in the package leaflet of the oral contraceptive. In the case of  non- oral hor monal contraceptives, the patient must use an additional non hormonal contraceptive method for the next 7 days and refer to the advice  in the package leaflet of the product. 
 Interactions due to the lasting effect of rocuronium or vecuronium 
 When medicinal  products which potentiate neuromuscular blockade are used in the post-operative period special attention should be paid to the possibility of recurrence of neurom uscular blockade  (see section 
4.4). Please refer to the package leaflet of rocuronium or vecuronium for a list of the specific medicinal products which potentiate neuromuscular blockade. In case recurrence  of neuromuscular  blockade is observed, the patient may  require mechanical ventilatio n and re -administr ation of sugam madex  (see section  4.2). 
 Interference with laboratory tests  
 8 
 In general sugammadex does not interfere with laboratory tests, wi th the possible exception of the serum progesterone assay. Interference with th is test is observed at sugammadex p lasma concentrations of 
100 microgra m/ml (peak plasma level  following 8 mg/kg bolus injection). 
 In a study in volunteers, doses of 4  mg/kg and 16 mg/k g of sugammadex resulted in maximu m mean prolongations of a 
 PTT  by 17  and 22%  respectively  and of PT(INR)  by 11 and 22 % respectively.  These limited mean a 
 PTT and PT(INR) prolongations were of short duration ( ≤ 30 minutes). In in vitr o experiments a pharmac odynamic interaction (a 
 PTT  and PT prolongation) was noted with vitamin K  antagonists, unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparinoids, rivaroxaban and dabigatran (see section 4.4).  Paediatric population  
 No formal interaction studies have bee n performed. The above mentioned interactions for adults and the warnings in section 4.4 should also be taken into account for the paediatric population.  