4.5 Interaction with other medi cinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Diuretics and other antihypertensive agents : othe r antihypertensive agents may increase the hypotensive effects of irbesartan; however Aprovel has been safely administered with other antihypertensive agents, s uch as beta-blockers, long- acting calcium channel blockers, and thiazide diuretics. Prior treatm ent with high dose diuretics may result in volume depletion and a ri sk of hypotension when initiating therapy with Aprovel (see section 4.4). 
 Aliskiren -containi ng products  or ACE -inhibitors : clinical trial data has shown that du al blockade of the renin -angiotensin- aldosterone system (RAAS) through the combined use of ACE -inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decrease d renal function (including a cute re nal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS- acting ag ent (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
 Potassium supplements and potassium-sparing diuretics:  based on experience with the use of other medicinal products that af fect the renin -angiotensin system, concomitant use of potassium -sparing diuretics, potassium su pplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other medicinal products that may increas e serum potassium levels (e.g.  heparin) may lead to increases in ser um potassium and is, theref ore, not recommended (see section  4.4). 
 Lithium:  reversible increas es in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant admini stration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Si milar effects have been very rarely reported with irbesartan so far. Therefore, this combination is not recommended (see section  4.4). If the combination proves necessary, careful monitori ng of serum lithium levels is recommended.  
 Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs : when angiote nsin II antagonists are administered simultaneously with non- steroid al anti -inflammatory drugs (i.e. selective COX-2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (>  3 g/day ) and non-selective NSAIDs), attenuation of the antihypertensive effe ct may occur.  
 As with ACE inhibitors, concomitant use of angiotensin II antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an increased risk of worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, and an increase in serum potassium, especially in patients with poor pre-existing renal  function. The combination should be administered with caution, es pecially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and consideration should be given to monitoring renal function after initiation of concomitant th erapy, and periodically the reafter.  
 Repaglinide: i rbesartan has the potential  to inhibit OATP 1B1. In a clin ical study , it was reported that irbesartan increased the C max and AUC of repagl inide (substrate of OATP1B1) by 1.8-fold and 
1.3-fold, respectively, when administered 1 hour b efore repagli nide. In another study, no relevant pharmacokinetic in teraction was reported , when the two drugs were co-administered. Therefore, dose adjustment o f antidiabetic treatment such as repaglinide may be required  (see section 4.4). 
 Additional info rmation on irbesartan interactions : in clinical studies, the pharma cokinetic of irbesartan is not affected by hydrochlorothiazide. Irbesartan is mainly metabolised by CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by gluc uronidation. No significant pharmacokinetic or pharm acodynamic interactions were observed when irbesartan was coadminis tered with warfarin, a medicinal product metabolised by CYP2C9. The effects of CYP2C9 inducers such as rifampicin on the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan have not been evaluated. The pharmacok inetic of digoxin was not altered by coadministration of irbesartan . 
  6 