4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 The effect of immediate -release exenatide to slow gastric emptying may reduce the extent and r ate of absorption of oral ly administered medicinal p roducts. Patients receiving medicinal products of either a narrow therapeutic ratio or medicinal products that require careful clinical monitoring should be followed closely. These medicinal products shou ld be taken in a standard ised way in relation to immediate -release exenatide injection. If such medicinal products are to be administered with food, patients should be advised to, if possible, take them with a meal when immediate -release exenatide is not a dministered. For oral m edicinal products that are particularly dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy, such as antibiotics, patients should be advised to take those medicinal products at least 1 hour before immediate -release exenatide injecti on. Gastroresistant for mulations containing substa nces sensitive for degradation in the stomach, such as proton pump inhibitors, should be taken at least 1 hour befor e or more than 4 hours after immediate -release exenatide injection.Digoxin, lisinopril and warfarin 
 A delay in tmax of about 2 h was obser ved when digoxin, lisinopril or warfarin was administered 
30min after exenatide. No clinically relevant effects on C max or AUC were observed. However, since market introduction, increased INR (Internatio nal Normalized Ratio) has been reported spontaneousl y during concomitant use of warfarin and exenatide . INR should be closely monitored during initiation and dose increase of immediate -release exenatide therapy in patients on warfarin and/or cumarol deriva tives (see section 4.8).Metformin or sulphonylurea s 
 Immediate -release exenatide is not expected to have any clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of metformin or sulphonylureas. Hence ,no restriction in timing of intake of these medicinal p roducts in relation to immediate -release exenatide injection are needed.Paracetamol 
 Paracetamol was used as a model medicinal product to evaluate the effect of exenatide on gastric emptying. When 1000 mg paracetamol was given with 10 mcg immediate -releaseexenatide (0h) and 
1h,2h and 4 h after immedia te-release exenatide injection, paracetamol AUCs were decreased by 
21%, 23%, 24% and 14% respectively; C max was decreased by 37%, 56%, 54% and 41%, respectively; tmax was increased from 0.6 h in the contr ol period to 0.9 h, 4.2 h,3.3h, and 1.6 h, respect ively. Paracetamol AUC, C max and t max were not significantly changed when paracetamol was given 1 hour befor e immediate -release exenatide injection. No adjustment to paracetamol dosing is required based on these study results.Hydroxy Methyl Glutaryl Coen zyme A (HMG Co 
 A) reductase inhibitors 
 Lovastatin AUC and C max were decr eased approximately 40% and 28%, respectively, and tmax was delayed about 4 h when immediate -release exenatide (10mcg BID) was admin istered concomitantly 6witha single dose of lovastat in (40 mg) compared with lovastatin administered alone. In the 30 -week placebo -controlled clinical trials, concomitant use of immediate -release exenatide and HMG Co 
 A reductase inhibitors was not associate d with consistent changes in lipid profiles (see sec tion5.1). Changes in LDL -C or total cholesterol are possible, however, no predetermined dose adjustment is required . Lipid profiles should be monitored regularly.Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel 
 Administration of a combina tion oral contraceptive (30 mcg ethinyl estradiol plus 150 mcg levonorgestrel) one hour before immediate -release exenatide (10mcg BID) did not alter the AUC, Cmax or Cmin of either ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel. Administrati on of the oral contracept ive 
30minutes after immedi ate-release exenatide did not affect AUC but resulted in a reduction of the Cmax of ethinyl estradiol by 45%, and C max of levonorgestrel by 27 -41%, and a delay in t max by 2-4h due to delayed gastric empt ying. The reduction in C maxis of limited clinical r elevance and no adjustment of dosing of oral contraceptives is required.Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
