4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Menveo can be given concomitantly with any of the following vaccines: monovalent and combined hepatitis A and B, yellow fever, typhoid fever (Vi polysaccharide), Japanese encephalitis , rabies  and meningococcal group B (Bexsero).  
 In adolescents (11  to 18 years of age), Menveo has been evaluated i n two co- administration studies with either Tetanus, Reduced Diphtheria and Acellular Pertussis Vaccine, Adsorbed (Tdap) alone or Tdap and Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types  6, 11, 16 and 18) Vaccine, Recombinant (HPV), both of which support the co -administration of the vaccines.  
 There was no evidence of an increased rate of reactogenicity or change in the safety profile of the vaccines in either study. Antibody responses to Menveo and the diphtheria, tetanus or HPV vaccine components were  not negatively affected by co- administration.  
 The administration of Menveo one month after Tdap resulted in statistically significantly lower serogroup W -135 seroresponses. Since there was no direct impact on the seroprotection rate, the clinical consequences are presently unknown. There was evidence of some suppression of antibody response to two of the three pertussis antigens. The clinical relevance of this observation is unknown. After vaccination, over  97% of subjects had detectable pertussis titers to all three pertussis antigens.  
 5 For children  2 to 10 years of age, no data are available for evaluating safety and immunogenicity of other childhood vaccines when administered concomitantly with Menveo.  
 Concomitant administration of Menveo and other vac cines than those listed above has not been studied. Concomitant vaccines should always be administered at separate injection sites and preferably contralateral. It should be checked if the adverse reactions may be intensified by any co-administration.  
 If a vaccine recipient is undergoing immunosuppressant treatment, the immunological response may be diminished.  
 
