4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 In vitro  studies have shown that caba zitaxel is mainly metabolise d through CYP3A (80% to 90%) (see section  5.2). 
  CYP3A i nhibitors  Repeated admin istration of ketoconazole (400 mg once daily), a strong CYP3A inhibitor, resulted in a 
20% decrease in cabazitaxel clearance corresponding to a 25%  increase in AUC. Therefore concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, voriconazole) should be avoided as an increase of plasma concentration s of cabazitaxel may occur (see section s 4.2 and 4.4).   Concomitant administration of ap repitant, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, had no effect on cabazitaxel clearance.  
 7 CYP3A inducers Repeated administration of rifampin (600 mg once dail y), a strong CYP3A inducer, resulted in an increase in cabazitaxel clearance of 21% corresponding to a decrea se in AUC of 17%.  Therefore concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, rifabutin, rifapentin, phenobarbital) should be avoided as a decrease of plasma concentration s of cabazitaxel may occur (see s ection s 4.2 and 4.4 ). In addition, patients should also refrain from taking St. John’s Wort.  OATP1B1  In vitro , cabazitaxel has also been shown to inhib it the transport proteins of the Organic Anion Transport Polypeptides OATP1B1. The risk of interaction with O ATP1B1 substrates (e.g. statins, valsartan, repaglinide)  is possible , notably during the infusion duration (1 hour) and up to 20 minutes  after the end of the infusion. A time interval of 12 hours is recommended before the infusion and at least 3 hours afte r the end of infusion before administering the OATP1B1 substrates. 
 Vaccinations  Administration of live or live -attenuated vaccines in patients immunocompromised by chemotherapeutic agents may result in serious or fatal infections. Vaccination with a live attenuated vaccine should be avoided in patients receiving cabazitaxel . Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered; however, the response t o such vaccines may be diminished. 
 
