4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 There have been no formal interaction studies for Pravafenix;  however the concomitant use of the active substances in patients in clinical studies has not resulted in any unexpected interactions. The following statements reflect the information available on the individual active substances (fenofibrate and pravastatin).  
 Interactions relevant to pravastatin  Colestyramine/Colestipol Concomitant administration resulted in approximately 40 to 50% decrease in the bioavailability of pravastatin. There was no clinically significant decrease in bioavailability or therapeutic effect when pravastatin was administered one hour before or four hours after colestyramine or one hour before colestip ol.  
 Ciclosporin Concomitant administration of pravastatin and ciclosporin leads to an approximately 4 fold increase in pravastatin systemic exposure. In some patients, however, the increase in pravastatin exposure may be larger. Clinical and biochemical monitoring of patients receiving this combination is recommended.  
 Medicinal products metabolised by cytochrome P450 Pravastatin is not metabolised to a clinically significant extent by the cytochrome P450 system. This is why medicinal products that are me tabolised by, or are inhibitors of, the cytochrome P450 system can be added to a stable regimen of pravastatin without causing significant changes in the plasma levels of pravastatin, as have been seen with other statins. The absence of a significant pharmacokinetic interactio n with pravastatin has been specifically demonstrated for several medicinal products, particularly those that are substrates/inhibitors of CYP3A4 e.g. diltiazem, verapamil, itraconazole, ketoconazole, protease inhibitors, grapefruit juice and CYP2C9 inhibi tors (e.g. fluconazole).  
 In one of two interaction studies with pravastatin and erythromycin a statistically significant increase in the area under the c urve ( AUC ) (70%) and Cmax (121%) of pravastatin was observed. In a similar study with clarithromycin a statistically significant increase in AUC (110%) and C max (127%) was observed. Although these changes were minor, caution should be exercised when associating pravastatin with erythromycin or clarithromycin.  
 Fusidic acid The risk of myopathy including rhabdomyolysis may be increased by the concomitant administration of systemic fusidic acid with statins. The mechanism of this interaction (whether it is pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic, or both) is yet unknown. There have been reports of rhabdomyolysis (including some fatalities) in patients receiving this combination.  If treatment with systemic fusidic acid is necessary, pravastatin treatment should be discontinued throughout the duration of the fus idic acid treatment. Also see section 4.4.   
 Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir  Concomitant use of pravastatin and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir may increase the plasma concentration of pravastatin and  may lead to an increase of dose -dependent adverse events including myopathy risk. Patients treated with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir should not exceed 20 mg per day of pravastatin. Therefore Pravafenix is not recommended in those patients.  
 Other medicinal produc ts In interaction studies, no statistically significant differences in bioavailability were observed when pravastatin was administered with acetylsalicylic acid, antacids (when given one hour prior to pravastatin), nicotinic acid or probucol.  
 Interactions  relevant to fenofibrate  Bile acid  resin  7 
 Bile acid binding resins frequently reduce the absorption of medicinal products  and when resins are being co- administered, fenofibrate should be taken 1 hour before, or 4 to 6 hours after, the resin so as not to impede the absorption of fenofibrate.  
 Oral anticoagulants  Fenofibrate enhances oral anticoagulant effect and may increase risk of bleeding. It is recommended that the dose of anticoagulants is reduced by about one third at the start of treatment and then gradually adjusted if necessary according to INR (International Normalised Ratio) monitoring. T his combination is , therefore,  not recommended.  
 Ciclosporin Some severe cases of reversible renal function impairment have been reported during concomitant administration of fenofibrate and ciclosporin. The renal function of these patients must therefore be closely monitored and the treatment with fenofibrate stopped in the case of severe alteration of laboratory parameters.  
 Glitazones  Some cases of reversib le paradoxical reduction of HDL -cholesterol have been reported during concomitant administration of fenofibrate and glitazones. Therefore, it is recommended to monitor HDL -cholesterol if Pravafenix is co -administered with a glitazone and  to stop one of the  two treatments  if HDL -cholesterol is too low.  
 Food interaction Pravafenix must be taken with food, as food enhances the bioavailability of fenofibrate (see sections 
4.2 and 5.2).  
 In all clinical trials, patients were instructed to take Pravafenix  daily during the evening meal and dietary restrictions instituted before therapy should be continued. Since current safety and efficacy data are based upon administration with food and with dietary restrictions, it is recommended that Pravafenix is admini stered with food. (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
 
