4.5 In teraction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 CYP3A4 or CYP2C19 inducers 
 The strong CYP3A4/2C19 inducing agent rifampicin (600 mg administered once daily) decreased plasma concentrations of cannabidiol and of 7-hydroxy-cannabidiol (7- OH-CBD; an active metabolite of cannabidiol) by approximately 30% and 60%, respectively. Other strong inducers of CYP3A4 and/or CYP2C19, such as carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane, St. John’s wort, when administered concomitantly with cannabidiol, may also cause a decrease in the plasma concentrations of cannabidiol and of 7- OH-CBD by a similar amount. These changes may result in a decrease in the effectiveness of cannabidiol. Dose adjustment may be necessary.  
 UGT inhibitors  
 Cannabidiol is a substrate for  
 UGT1A7, UGT1A9 and UGT2B7 . No formal drug- drug interaction studies have been conducted with cannabidiol  in combination with UGT inhibitors, therefore caution should be taken when co-administering drugs that are known inhibitors of these UGTs. Dose reduction of cannabidiol and/or the inhibitor  may be necessary when given in combination.  
 Concomitant AED treatments  
 The pharmacokinetics of cannabidiol are complex and may cause interactions with the patient’s concomitant AED treatments. cannabidiol and/or concomitant AED treatment should therefore be adjusted during regular medical supervision and the patient should be closely monitored for adverse drug reactions. In addition, monitoring of plasma concentrations should be considered. 
 The potential for drug-drug interactions with other con co
 mitant AEDs has been assessed in healthy volunteers and patients with epilepsy for clobazam , valproate, stiripentol and everolimus. Although no formal drug-drug interaction studies have been performed for other AEDs, phenytoin and lamotrigine are address ed based on in  vitro  data.  
 Clobazam When cannabidiol and clobazam are co -a dministered, bi -directional PK interactions occur. Based on a healthy volunteer study , elevated levels (3 - to 4- fold) of N -desmethylclobazam (an active metabolite of clobazam) can occur when combined with cannabidiol, likely mediated by CYP2C19 inhibition, with no effect  on clobazam levels. In addition, there was an increased exposure to  7-OH-CBD, for which plasma  area under the curve (AUC ) increased by 47% (see section 5.2). Increased systemic levels of these active substances may lead to enhanced pharmacological effects and to an increase in adverse drug reactions . Concomitant use of cannabidiol and clobazam  increase s the incidence of 8 somnolence and sedation compared with placebo (see section s 4.4 and 4.8). Reduction in dose of clobazam should be considered if somnolence or sedation are experienced when  clobazam is  co-administered with cannabidiol. 
 Valpr oate Concomitant use of c annabidiol and valproate increases the incidence of transaminase enzyme elevations (see section 4.4) . The mechanism of this interaction  remains  unknown. If clinically significant increases of transaminases occur, cannabidiol and/or concomitant valproate should be reduced or discontinued in all patients until a recovery of transaminase elevations are observed (see section 4.4). Insufficient data are availab le to assess the risk of concomitant administration of other hepatotoxic medicinal products  and cannabidiol (see section 4.4). 
 Concomitant use of c annabidiol and valproate increases the incidence of diarrhoea and events of decreased appetite. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown. 
 Stiripentol  When cannabidiol was combined with stiripentol in a healthy volunteer trial there was an increase in stiripentol levels of 28% for maximum measured plasma concentration (C max) and 55% for AUC. In patients, how ever, the effect was smaller, with an increase in stiripentol levels of 17% in C max and 30% in AUC. T he clinical importance of these results has not been studied. The patient should be closely monitored for adverse drug reactions . 
 Phenytoin Exposure to phenytoin may be increased when it is co -a
 dministered with cannabidiol , as phenytoin is largely metabolised via CYP2C9, which is inhibited by cannabidiol in vitro . There have not been any clinical studies formally investigating this interaction . Phenytoin has a narrow therapeutic index, so combining cannabidiol with phenytoin should be initiated with caution  and if tolerability issues arise, dose reduction of phenytoin should be considered. 
 Lamotrigine Lamotrigine is a substrate for UGT enzymes including UGT2B7  w
 hich is inhibited by cannabidiol in vitro . There have not been any clinical studies formally investigating this interaction.  Lamotrigine levels may be elevated when it is co -administered with cannabidiol. 
 Everolimus  Coadministration of cannabidiol (12.5 mg/kg twice daily) with the P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate everolimus (5  mg) in a healthy volunteer study led to an increase in everolimus exposure of approximately 2.5-fold for both C max and AUC. The mechanism for this int eraction is believed to be inhibition of intestinal P -gp efflux, leading to increased bioavailability of everolimus, because cannabidiol did not affect midaz olam exposure in another interaction study. The half -life of everolimus was not affected, confirmin g the lack of systemic inhibitory effects of cannabidiol on P -gp and CYP3A4 activity. When initiating cannabidiol in patients taking everolimus, monitor therapeutic drug levels of everolimus and adjust the dosage accordingly. When initiating everolimus in patients taking a stable dosage of cannabidiol, a lower starting dose of everolimus is recommended, with therapeutic drug monitoring. 
 Potential for cannabidiol  to affect other medicinal products  
 CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, UGT1A9, and UGT2B7 Substrates In vivo data fro m steady -state dosing with cannabidiol (750 mg twice daily) when co -administered with a single dose of caffeine (200 mg), a sensitive CYP1A2 substrate, showed increased caffeine exposure by 15% for C max and 95% for AUC compared to when caffeine was administered alone. These data indicate that cannabidiol is a weak inhibitor of CYP1A2. Similar modest increases in exposure may be observed with other sensitive CYP1A2 substrates (e.g., theophylline or tizanidine). The clinical importance of these findings has not been studied. The patient should be closely monitored for adverse drug reactions.  
 9 In vitro  data predict drug -drug interactions with CYP2B6 substrates (e.g., bupropion, efavirenz), uridine 5' diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase 1A9 (UGT1A9) (e.g., diflunisal, propofol, fenofibrate), and UGT2B7 (e.g., gemfibrozil, morphine, lorazepam) when co- administered with cannabidiol . Co-administration of cannabidiol is also predicte d to cause clinically significant interactions with CYP2C8 ( repaglinide)  and CYP2C9 (e.g., warfarin ) substrates.  
 In vitro  
 data ha ve demonstrated that cannabidiol inhibits CYP2C19, which may cause increased plasma concentrations of medicines that are metabolised by this isoenzyme such as clobazam and omeprazole. Dose reduction should be considered for concomitant medicinal products tha t are sensitive CYP2C19 substrates or that have a narrow therapeutic index.  Because of potential inhibition of enzyme activity, dose reduction of substrates of UGT1A9, UGT2B7, CYP2C8, and CYP2C9 should be considered, as clinically appropriate, if adverse reactions are experienced when administered concomitantly with cannabidiol. Because of potential for both induction and inhibition of enzyme activity, dose adjustment of substrates of CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 should be considered, as clinically appropriate.  In vitro assessment of interaction with UGT enzymes  In vitro  da ta suggest that cannabidiol is a reversible inhibitor of UGT1A9 and UGT2B7  activity at clinically relevant concentrations. The metabolite 7 -carboxy- cannabidiol (7 -COOH- CBD) is also an inhibitor of UGT1A1, UGT1A4 and UGT1A6- mediated activity in vitro. Dose reduction of the substrates may be necessary when cannabidiol is administ ered concomitan tly with substrates of these UGTs.  
 Sensitive P-gp substrates given orally Coadministration of cannabidiol with orally administered everolimus, a P - gp and CYP3A4 substrate, has increased everolimus bioavailability  likely due to inhibition of intestinal P -gp efflux of everolimus . Increases in exposure of other orally administered sensitive P-gp substrates (e.g., sirolimus, tacrolimus, digoxin) may occur on coadministration with cannabidiol. Therapeutic drug monitoring and dose red uction of other P-gp substrates should be considered when given orally and concurrently with cannabidiol. 
 Ethanol in the formulation 
 Each ml of E
 pidyolex  contains 79 mg of ethanol , equivalent to 10%  v/v anhydrous ethanol, i.e., up to 
691.3 mg ethanol/ per maximal single Epidyolex dose (12.5 mg/kg) for an adult weighing 70 kg (9.9 mg ethanol/ kg). For an adult weighing 70 kg, this is equivalent to 1 7 ml of beer, or 7 ml of wine per dose .  
 
