4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  ema-combined-h-5955-en  Pg. 6Medicinal product no longer authorised7  Dimethyl fumarate has not been studied in combination with anti -neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies and caution should, therefore, be used during concomitant administration. In multiple sclerosis clinical studies, the concomitant treatme nt of relapses with a short course of intravenous corticosteroids was not associated with a clinically relevant increase of infection.  
 Concomitant administration of non -live vaccines according to national vaccination schedules may be considered during dimethyl fumarate  therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71 patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis, patients on dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice daily for at least 
6 months (n=38) or non -pegylated interferon for at least 3 months (n=33), mounted a comparable immune response (defined as ≥2 -fold increase from pre - to post -vaccination titer) to tetanus toxoid (recall ant igen) and a conjugated meningococcal C polysaccharide vaccine (neoantigen), while the immune response to different serotypes of an unconjugated 23 -valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (T -cell independent antigen) var ied in both treatment groups. A  positive immune response defined as a ≥4 -fold increase in antibody titer to the three vaccines, was achieved by fewer subjects in both treatment groups. Small numerical differences in the response to tetanus toxoid and pneumococcal serotype 3 polysaccharide were noted in favour of non -pegylated interferon.  
 No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated vaccines in patients taking dimethyl fumarate . Live vaccines might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should not  be given to patients treated with dimethyl fumarate unless, in exceptional cases, this potential risk is considered to be outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vaccinating.  
 During treatment with dimethyl fumarate , simultaneous use of other fum aric acid derivatives (topical or systemic) should be avoided.  
 In humans, dimethyl fumarate is extensively metabolised by esterases before it reaches the systemic circulation and further metabolism occurs through the tricarboxylic acid cycle, with no inv olvement of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Potential drug interaction risks were not identified from in vitro CYP -inhibition and induction studies, a p -glycoprotein study, or studies of the protein binding of dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate (a  primary metabolite of dimethyl fumarate).  
 Commonly used medicinal products in patients with multiple sclerosis, intramuscular interferon beta-1a and glatiramer acetate, were clinically tested for potential interactions with dimethyl fumarate and did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate.  
 Evidence from healthy volunteer studies suggests that dimethyl fumarate -associated flush ing is likely to be prostaglandin mediated. In two healthy volunteer studies, the administration of 325 mg (or equivalent) non -enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid, 30 minutes prior to dimethyl fumarate , dosing over 
4 days and over 4 weeks, respectively, di d not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate . Potential risks associated with acetylsalicylic acid therapy s hould be considered prior to co-administration with dimethyl fumarate in patients with Relapsi ng Remitting MS. Long term (> 4 weeks)  continuous use of acetylsalicylic acid has not been studied (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).  
 Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, diuretics, non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs  or lithium) may increase the potenti al of renal adverse reactions (e.g. proteinuria  see section 4.8 ) in patients taking dimethyl fumarate (see section 4.4 Blood/laboratory tests).  
 Consumption of moderate amounts of alcohol did not alter exposure to dimethyl fumarate  and was not associated with an increase in adverse reactions. Consumption of large quantities of strong alcoholic drinks (more than 30% alcohol by volume) should be avoided within an hour of taking dimethyl fumarate , as alcohol may lead to increased frequ ency of gastrointestinal adverse reactions.  
 ema-combined-h-5955-en  Pg. 7Medicinal product no longer authorised8 In vitro CYP induction studies did not demonstrate an interaction between dimethyl fumarate and oral contraceptives. In an in vivo study, co -administration of dimethyl fumarate  with a combined oral contraceptiv e (norgestimate and ethiny lestradiol) did not elicit any relevant change in oral contraceptive exposure. No interaction studies have been performed with oral contraceptives containing other progestogens, however an effect of dimethyl fumarate on their expo sure is not expected.  
 Paediatric population  Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
