4.5 Interaction with other medicinal prod ucts and other f orms of interaction  
 Antiepile ptic medicinal products  
 Pre-marketing data from clinical studies conducte d in adults indicate that levetiracetam did not influence the serum concentrations of ex isting antiepileptic medicinal products (phenyto in, carbamazepin e, valproic acid, phe nobarbita l, lamotrigine, gabapentin and primidone) and that these antiepileptic med icinal products did not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam .  
  
8 As in adults,  there is no evidence of clinically significant medicinal produc t interactions in pae diatric patients receiving up to 60  mg/kg/day levetiracetam.  A retrospective asses sment of pharmacokinetic interactions in children and adolescents with epilepsy (4 to 17  years) confirmed that adjunctive therapy with o rally administer ed levetiracetam did not influ ence the steady -state serum concentrations of concomitantly administered c arbamazepine and valproate. However, data suggested a 2 0 % higher levetiracetam clearanc e in children taking enzyme -inducing antiepilept ic medicinal pro ducts. Dose adjustmen t is not required.  
 Probenecid  
 Probenecid (500  mg four times daily), a renal tubu lar secretion blocking agent, has been shown to inhibit the renal clearance of the prima ry metabolite , but not of levetiracetam. Neverth eless, the conce ntration of this meta bolite re mains low .  
 Methotrexate  
 Concomitant administration of levetiracetam and  methotrexate has been reported to decrease methotrexate clearance, resulting in increas ed/prolonged blood methotrexate concentration to  potentially tox ic levels. Blood meth otrexate and levetiracetam levels should be carefully monitored in patients treated  concomitantly with the two medicinal products . 
 Oral contraceptives and other pharmacok inetics interactions  
 Levetiracetam 1  000 mg dai ly did not infl uence the pharmacokin etics of o ral contraceptives (ethinyl -estradiol and levonorgestrel); endocrine param eters (luteinizing hormone and progesterone) were not modified. -Levetiracetam 2  000 mg daily did not influence the pharmacokinetics of digoxin and warfarin; prothrombin t imes were n ot modified. Co -administration with digoxin, oral contraceptives and warfa rin did not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam.  
 Laxatives  
 There have bee n isolated reports of decreased levetiracetam ef ficacy when th e osmotic laxative macrogol has been concomitantly administered with oral levetiracetam. Therefore, macrog ol should not be taken orally for one hour before and for one hour after taking levetira cetam. 
 Food and alcohol  
 The extent of absorpti on of levetira cetam was not altered  by food, b ut the rate of absorption was slightly reduced.  No data on the interactio n of levetiracetam with alcohol are available.  
 
