4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Active substances that may have an effect on avapritinib  
 Strong and moderate CYP3A inhibitors  Co-administration of avapritinib  with a strong CYP3A inhibitor increased avapritinib plasma concentrations and may result in increased adverse reactions. Co -administration of itraconazole (200 mg twice daily on Day  1 followed by 200  mg once daily for 13  days) with a single 200  mg dose of avapritinib on Day  4 in healthy subjects increased avapritinib C max by 1.4-fold and AUC 0-inf by 
4.2-fold, relative to a 200  mg dose of avapritinib administered alone.  
 Concomitant use of avapritinib with strong  or moderate  CYP3A inhibitors (such as antifungals including ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole; certain macrolides such as  erythromycin,  clarithromycin and telithromycin; active substances to treat human immunodeficiency virus infections/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) such as cobicistat, indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir and saquinavir; as well as conivaptan for hyponatremia and boceprevir to treat hepatitis) including grapefruit  or grapefruit juice should be avoided. If concomitant use with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor cannot be avoided, the starting dose of avapritinib  should be reduced from 
300 mg to 100  mg orally once daily for patients with GIST, and from 200  mg to 50 mg orally once daily for patients with Adv 
 SM . For patients with ISM, concomitant use of avapritinib with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors must be avoided  (see section s 4.2 and 4.4).  
 Strong and moderate CYP3A inducers  Co-administration of avapritinib  with a strong CYP3A inducer decreased avapritinib plasma concentrations and may result in decreased efficacy of avapritinib. Co -administration of rifampicin (600 mg once daily for 18  days) with a single 400  mg dose of avapritinib on Day  9 in healthy subjects decreased avapritinib C max by 74% and AUC 0-inf by 92%, relative to a 400  mg dose of avapritinib administered alone.  
 Co-administration of avapritinib  with strong and moderate CYP3A inducers (e.g. dexamethasone, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampicin, phenobarbital, fosphenytoin, primidone, bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, dabrafenib, nafcillin or Hypericum perforatum , also known as St. John’s wort) should be avoided.  
 Effect of avapritinib  on other active substances  
 In vitro studies demonstrated that avapritinib is a direct inhibitor of CYP3A and a time -dependent inhibitor of CYP3A. Therefore, avapritinib may have the potential to increase plasma concentrations of co-administered medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A.  
 In vitro studies indicated that avapritinib is an inducer of CYP3A. Therefore, avapritinib may have the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of co -administered medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A.  
 Caution must be exercised with co -administration of avapritinib with narrow therapeutic index CYP3A substrates as their plasma concentrations may be altered.  
 Avapritinib is an inhibitor of P -gp, BCRP, MATE1, MATE2 -K, and BSEP in vitro. Therefore, avapritinib has the potential to alter concentrations of co -administered substrates of these transporters.  
 
