4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Pharmacodyn amic interactions 
 Diuretics 
 Dapagliflozin may add to the diuretic effect of thiazide and loop diuretics and may increase the risk of dehydration and hypotension (see section 4.4).Insulin and insulin secretagogues 
 Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulphonylureas, cause hypoglycaemia. Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or an insulin secretagogue may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia when used in combination with dapagliflozin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (see sections 4.2 and 
4.8).Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 The metabolism of dapagliflozin is primarily via glucuronide conjugation mediated by UDP glucuronosyltransferase 1A9 (UGT1A9).In in vitro studies, dapagliflozin neither inhibited cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, nor induced CYP1A2, CYP2B6 or CYP3A4. Ther efore, dapagliflozin is not expected to alter the metabolic clearance of coadministered medicinal products that are metabolised by these enzymes.7Effect of other medicinal products on dapagliflozin 
 Interaction studies conducted in healthy subjects, using mainly a single -dose design, suggest that the pharmacokinetics of dapagliflozin are not altered by metformin, pioglitazone, sitagliptin, glimepiride, voglibose, hydrochlorothiazide, bumetanide, valsartan, or simvastatin.Following coadministration of dapagliflozin with rifampicin (an inducer of various active transporters and drug -metabolis ing enzymes) a 22% decrease in dapagliflozin systemic exposure (AUC) was observed, but with no clinically meaningful effect on 24 -hour urinary glucose excretion. No dose adjustment is recommended. A clinically relevant effect with other inducers (e.g. carb amazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital) is not expected.Following coadministration of dapagliflozin with mefenamic acid (an inhibitor of UGT1A9), a 55% increase in dapagliflozin systemic exposure was seen, but with no clinically meaningful effect on 
24-hour urinary glucose excretion. No dose adjustment is recommended.Effect of dapagliflozin on other medicinal products 
 Dapagliflozin may increase renal lithium excretion and the blood lithium levels may be decreased. Serum concentration of lithium should be monitored more frequently after dapagliflozin initiation and dose changes. Please refer the patient to the lithium prescribing doctor in order to monitor serum concentration of lithium.In interaction studies conducted in healthy subjects, using mainly a single -dose design, dapagliflozin did not alter the pharmacokinetics of metformin, pioglitazone, sitagliptin, glimepiride, hydrochlorothiazide, bumetanide, valsartan, digoxin (a P -gp substrate) or warfarin (S -warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate), or the anticoagu latory effects of warfarin as measured by INR. Combination of a single dose of dapagliflozin 20 mg and simvastatin (a CYP3A4 substrate) resulted in a 19% increase in AUC of simvastatin and 31% increase in AUC of simvastatin acid. The increase in simvastati n and simvastatin acid exposures are not considered clinically relevant .Interference with 1,5 -anhydroglucitol (1,5 -AG) assay 
 Monitoring glycaemic control with 1,5 -AG assay is not recommended as measurements of 1,5 -AG are unreliable in assessing glycaemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use of alternative methods to monitor glycaemic control is advised.Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
