4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 6 Cenobamate is extensively metabolized, primarily by glucuronidation, with oxidation contributing to a lesser degree.   
 Cenobamate may reduce exposures of products primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and 2B6. Cenobamate may increase exposures of products primarily metabolized by CYP2C19. When initiating or discontinuing treatment with cenobamate or changing the dose, it may take 2 weeks to reach the new level of enzyme activity.   
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 CNS depressants  Concomitant use of cenobamate  with other CNS depressants, including alcohol, barbiturates, and benzodiazepines may increase the risk of neurological adverse reactions. Therefore, based on individual response, doses of barbiturates and benzodiazepines may need to be reduced, as clinical ly appropriate, when used concomitantly with cenobamate.  Interactions with other antiepileptics  
 Phenytoin  In a study in healthy subjects, concomitant administration of cenobamate 200 mg/day and phenytoin 
300 mg/day slightly reduced cenobamate exposures ( Cmax by -27%, AUC by - 28%), and increased phenytoin exposures (C max by 67%, AUC by 84%). No dose adjustment of cenobamate is required . Phenytoin concentrations should be monitored during titration of cenobamate, and based on individual response, the dose of phenytoin may need to be reduced.  
 Phenobarbital  In a study in healthy subjects, concomitant administration of cenobamate 200 mg/day and phenobarbital 90 mg/day did not  cause clinically meaningful changes  in cenobamate exposure  but led to increased phenobarbital exposures (C max by 34% and AUC by 37%). No dose adjustment of cenobamate is required . Concentrations of phenobarbital should be monitored during cenobamate titration, and based on individual response, the dose of phenobarbital may need to be reduced.  
 Clobazam  Pharmacometric analyses of data from healthy subjects and patients predict that clobazam  slightly  increases cenobamate exposures (by 24% ). No dose adjustment of cenobamate is required.  Due to a possible increase in exposure of the active metabolite of clobazam  (N-desmethylclobazam ), related to the induction of CYP3A4 (formation) and the inhibition of CYP2C19 (elimination), the dose of clobazam may need to be reduced.  
 Lamotrigine  Pharmacometric  analyses of data from healthy subjects and patients showed that concomitant administration of cenobamate with lamotrigine had no effect on cenobamate exposures, but resulted in dose-dependent decreases in lamotrigine concentrations (by - 21%, - 35%, and -52% for cenobamate 
100, 200, and 400 mg/day).  Based on subpopulation analyses of patients taking concomitant lamotrigine, higher doses (200 -  400 mg/day) of cenobamate may be required for efficacy when co -administered with lamotrigine.  Depending on individua l response, the dose of cenobamate may need to be increased.  
 Carbamazepine  In a study in healthy subjects, concomitant administration of cenobamate 200 mg once daily and carbamazepine 200  mg twice daily showed no significant change in exposure of cenobamate, but carbamazepine exposures were slightly  reduced (C max reduced by 23%, AUC reduced by 24%). No clinically meaningful decreases in efficacy were observed in subpopulation analyses of pa tients taking concomitant carbamazepine.  Therefore, no dose adjustments are required.   
 Valproic acid  7 In a study in healthy subjects, concomitant administration of cenobamate 150 mg once daily and valproic acid 1, 000 mg once daily showed no significant cha nges in exposures of either medicinal product .  Pharmacometric analyses of data from healthy subjects and patients indicated that concomitant administration of cenobamate with valproic acid did not affect cenobamate exposures  and had no clinical ly relevant reductions in valproic acid concentration. No dose adjustments are required.  
 Lacosamide, levetiracetam  and oxcarbazepine  Pharmacometric analyses of data from healthy subjects and patients indicated that concomitant administration with lacosamide , levetiracetam, or oxcarbazepine did not affect the exposure of cenobamate, and cenobamate did not have a clinically relevant effect on exposures of lacosamide, levetiracetam, or oxcarbazepine. No dose adjustments are required for cenobamate, lacosamide, levetiracetam, or oxcarbazepine.  
 Other medicinal products  
 Oral co ntraceptives  Cenobamate showed a dose -dependent induction of CYP3A4, reducing exposures (AUC) of the CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam 2 mg by 72% with cenobamate 200 mg/day  in healthy subjects . Since hormonal contraceptives may also be metabolized by CYP3A4, their efficacy may be reduced by concomitant use with cenobamate.  Therefore, women of reproductive potential concomitantly using oral contraceptives should practice additional or alternative non- hormonal measures of birth control  (see section  4.6).  
 CYP3A4 substrates  In a study in healthy subjects , concomitant  admin istration of  cenobamate 100 and  200 mg  once daily reduced exposures (AUC) of the CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam 2  mg by 27% and 72% , respectively. An increase in the dose of  medicines metabolized by CYP3A4 may be required when used concomitantly with cenobamate.  
 CYP2B6 substrates  In a study in healthy subjects, concomitant administration of cenobamate 200 mg once daily reduced exposures of the CYP 2B6 substrate, bupropion  150 mg ( Cmax reduced by 23%, AUC re duced by 39%) . An increase in the dose of medicines metabolized by CYP 2B6 may be required when used concomitantly with cenobamate.  
 CYP2C19 substrates  In a study in healthy subjects, concomitant administration of cenobamate 200 mg once daily increased exposures of the CYP 2C19 substrate, omeprazole  20 mg (C max increase by 83 %, AUC increased by 
107%). A dose reduction of medicines metabolized by CYP 2C19 may be required when used concomitantly with cenobamate.  
 OAT3 substrates  In vitro  studies have shown that cenobamate inhibits OAT3, a transporter predominantly involved in the elimination of certain medicines  (e.g. baricitinib, cefaclor, empagliflozin, penicillin G, ritobegron, and sitagliptin). Therefore, concomitant administration of  cenobamate and medicinal products transported by O AT3 may result in higher exposure of these medicinal products.  
 
