4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 ORSERDU is primarily metabolis ed by CYP3A4 and is a substrate of the Organic Anion Transporting Polypeptide 2B1 (OATP2B1). ORSERDU is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P -gp) and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) efflux transporters.  Effect of  other  medicinal products  on ORSERDU  
 CYP3A4 Inhibitors  Co-administration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor itraconazole (200 mg once daily for 7  days) with ORSERDU (172  mg once daily for 7  days) increased elacestrant plasma exposure (AUC inf) and the peak concentration (C max) in healthy subjects 5.3 and 4.4-fold, respectively.  
 6 Physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations in cancer patients suggested that the concomitant administration of multiple daily doses of elacestrant 345 mg and itraconazole 200 mg may increase elacestrant steady -state AUC and C max 5.5- and 3.9-fold, respectively, which may increase the risk of adverse reaction s. 
 PBPK simulations in cancer patients suggested that concomitant administration of multiple daily doses of elacestrant 345  mg with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase elacestrant steady -state AUC and Cmax by 2.3- and 1.9-folds, respectively, with fluconazole (200  mg once daily), and by 3.9 - and 
3.0-folds, respectively, with erythromycin (500 mg four times a day), which may increase the risk of adverse reaction.  
 CYP3A4 Inducers  Co-administration of the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin (600 mg once daily for 7 days) with a single dose of ORSERDU 345 mg decreased elacestrant plasma exposure (AUCinf) and the peak concentration (C max) in healthy subjects by 86% and 73%, respectively, which may decrease elacestrant activity.  
 PBPK simulations in cancer patients suggested that the concomitant administration of multiple daily doses of elacestrant 345  mg and rifampicin 600 mg may decrease elacestrant steady -state AUC and Cmax by 84% and 77%, respectively, which may decrease elacestrant activity.  
 PBPK simulations in cancer patients suggested that the concomitant administration of multiple daily doses of elacestrant 345  mg and the moderate CYP3A4 inducer efavirenz (600  mg) may decrease elacestrant steady -state AUC and Cmax by 57% and 52%, respectively, which may decrease elacestrant activity.  OATP2B1 inhibitors  Elacestrant is a substrate of OATP2B1  in vitro. As it cannot be excluded that the coadministration of OATP2B1 inhibitors may increase the exposure of elacestrant, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions,  caution  is recommended in case of concomitant use of ORSERDU with OATP2B1 inhibitors.  
 Effect of ORSERDU on other medicinal products  
 P-gp substrates Co-administration of ORSERDU (345  mg, single dose) with digoxin (0.5 mg, single dose) increased digoxin exposure by 27% for  Cmax and 13% for AUC. Digoxin administration should be monitored and its dose reduced as necessary.  
 Concomitant use of ORSERDU with other P -gp substrates may increase their concentrations, which may increase the adverse reactions associated with the P-gp substrates. The dose of coadministered P-gp substrates should be reduced according to their Summary of Product Characteristics . 
 BCRP substrates  Co-administration of ORSERDU (345 mg, single dose)  with rosuvastatin (20 mg, single dose) increased rosuvastatin exposure by 45% for C max and 23% for AUC. Rosuvastatin administration  should be monitored and its dose reduced  as necessary.  
 Concomitant use of ORSERDU with other BCRP substrates may increase their concentrations, which may increase the adverse reactions associated with the BCRP substrates. The dose of coadministered BCRP substrates should be reduced according to their Summary of Product Characteristics.  
 7 