4.5  mg sodium per maximum dose of 4 vials  (8.625 mg sodium per vial), equivalent to 1.7% of the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.  
 Traceability  
 In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of the administered product should be clearly recorded.  
 4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Combination with TNF-inhibitors  
 There is limited experience with the use of abatacept in combination with TNF -inhibitors (see section  5.1). While TNF-inhibitors did not influence abatacept clearance, in placebo -controlled clinical trials, patients receiving concomitant treatment with abatacept and TNF -inhibitors experienced more infections and serious infections than patients treated with only TNF-inhibitors. Therefore, concurrent therapy with abatacept and a TNF -inhibitor is not recommended.  
 Combination with other medicinal products  
 Population pharmacokinetic analyses did not detect any effect of methotrexate, NSAIDs, and cortic osteroids on abatacept clearance (see section  5.2). 
 No major safety issues were identified with use of abatacept in combination with sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, or leflunomide.  
 Combination with other medicinal products that affect the immune syste m and with vaccinations  
 Co-administration of abatacept with biologic immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory agents could potentiate the effects of abatacept on the immune system. There is insufficient evidence to assess the safety and efficacy of abatacept  in combination with anakinra or rituximab (see section  4.4). 
 Vaccinations  Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with abatacept or within 3 months of its discontinuation. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection from persons receiving live vaccines to patients receiving abatacept. Medicinal products that affect the immune system, including abatacept, may blunt the effectiveness of some immunisations (see sections 4.4 and 
4.6). 7  Exploratory studies to assess the effect of abatacept on the antibody response to vaccination in healthy subjects as well as the antibody response to influenza and pneumococcal vaccines in rheumatoid arthritis patients suggested that abatacept may blunt the effectiveness of the immune response, b ut did not significantly inhibit the ability to develop a clinically significant or positive immune response.  
 Abatacept was evaluated in an open -label study in rheumatoid arthritis patients administered the 
23-valent pneumococcal vaccine. After pneumococcal vaccination, 62 of 112 abatacept -treated patients were able to mount an adequate immune response of at least a 2 -fold increase in antibody titers to pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine.  
 Abatacept was also evaluated in an open -label study in r heumatoid arthritis patients administered the seasonal influenza trivalent virus vaccine. After influenza vaccination, 73 of 119 abatacept -treated patients without protective antibody levels at baseline were able to mount an adequate immune response of at least a 4 -fold increase in antibody titers to trivalent influenza vaccine.  
 
