4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effect of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of lenacapavir  
 Lenacapavir is a substrate of CYP3A, P -gp and UGT1A1. Strong inducers of CYP3A, P -gp, and UGT1A1, such as rifampicin, may significantly decrease plasma concentrations of lenacapavir  resulting in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance , therefore co -administration is contraindicated (s ee section  4.3). Moderate inducers of CYP3A and P -gp, such as efavirenz, may also significantly decrease plasma concentrations of lenacapavir, therefore co -administration is not recommended (see section  4.4). 
 Strong inhibitors of CYP3A, P -gp and UGT1A1 together (i.e., all 3 pathways), such as atazanavir/cobicistat, may significantly increase plasma concentrations of lenacapavir, therefore co-administration is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
 Strong CY P3A4 inhibitors alone (e.g. voriconazole) or strong i nhibitors of CYP3A4 and P -gp together (e.g. cobicistat) do not result in a clinically meaningful increase in lenacapavir exposures.  
 Effect of lenacapavir on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products  
 Lenacapavir is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Caution is advised if Sunlenca  is co-administered with a sensitive CYP3A substrate with a narrow therapeutic index . Lenacapavir is not a clinically meaningful inhibitor of P -gp and BCRP and does not  inhibit OAT P. 
 Table 2: Interactions between Sunlenca  and other medicinal products  
 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on concentrations .  Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax Recommendation concerning co-administration with Sunlenca  ANTIMYCOBACTERIALS  Rifampicina,b,c (600 mg once daily)  
 Lenacapavir:  AUC:  ↓84% Cmax: ↓55% Co-administration is contraindicated (see section  4.3). Rifabutin  
 Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration of rifabutin may decrease lenacapavir plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance.  Co-administration is not recommended (see section  4.4). ANTICONVULSANTS  Carbamazepine  Phenytoin  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration of carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, or phenytoin with lenacapavir may decrease lenacapavir plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance.  Co-administration is contraindicated (see section  4.3). Oxcarbazepine  Phenobarbital  Co-administration is not recommended (see section  4.4). 
 Alternative anticonvulsants should be considered. 6 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on concentrations .  Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax Recommendation concerning co-administration with Sunlenca  HERBAL PRODUCTS  St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum)  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administra tion of St.  John’s wort may decrease lenacapavir plasma concentrations, which may  result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance.  Co-administration is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  ANTIRETROVIRAL AGENTS  Atazanavir/cobicistatb,d,e (300 mg/150 mg once daily)  Lenacapavir:  AUC: ↑ 321%  Cmax: ↑ 560%  Co-administration is not recommended (see section  4.4). Efavirenzb,d,f (600 mg once daily)  Lenacapavir:  AUC:↓  56%  Cmax:↓ 36% Etravirine  Nevirapine  Tipranavir/ritonavir  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration of etravirine, nevirapine, or tipranavir/ritonavir  may decrease lenacapavir plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance.  Cobicistatb,d,g (150 mg once daily)  
 Lenacapavir:  AUC:  ↑ 128%  Cmax:↑ 110%  No dose adjustment  of lenacapavir  is required. Darunavir/cobicistatb,d,h (800 mg/150 mg once daily)  Lenacapavir:  AUC:↑  94%  Cmax:↑ 130%  Ritonavir  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administation of ritonavir may increase lenacapavir plasma concentration s. Tenofovir alafenamided,i,j (25 mg) Tenofovir alafenamide:  AUC:↑  32%  Cmax:↑ 24%  
 Tenofovirk: AUC:↑  47%  Cmax:↑ 23% No dose adjustment of tenofovir alafenamide is required.  ERGOT DERIVATIVES  Dihydroergotamine  Ergotamine  
 Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentrations of these medicinal products may be increased when co -administered with lenacapavir.  Caution is warranted when dihydroergotamine or ergotamine, is co-administered with Sunlenca . PHOSPHODIESTERASE -5 (PDE -5) INHIBITORS  Sildenafil  Tadalafil  Vardenafil  Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentration of PDE -5 inhibitors may be increased when co-administered with lenacapavir.  Use of PDE -5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension: Co-administration with tadalafil is not recommended. 
 Use of PDE -5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction:  Sildenafil: A starting dose of 25  mg is recommended.  7 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on concentrations .  Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax Recommendation concerning co-administration with Sunlenca  Vardenafil: No more than 5  mg in a 
24-hour period. Tadalafil:  
• For use as needed: no more than 10 mg every 72  hours  
• For once daily use: dose not to exceed 2.5  mg CORTICOSTEROIDS (systemic)  Dexamethasone  Hydrocortisone/cortisone  Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentrations of corticosteroids may be increased when co -administered with lenacapavir.  Co-administration of Sunlenca  with corticosteroids whose exposures are significantly increased by CYP3A inhibitors can increase the risk for Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression.  Initiate with the lowest starting dose and titrate carefully while monitoring for safety.  HMG -Co 
 A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS  Lovastatin  Simvastatin  Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentrations of these medicinal products may be increased when co -administered with lenacapavir.  Initiate lovastatin and simvastatin with the lowest starting dose and titrate carefully while monitoring for safety (e.g. myopathy).  Atorvastatin  No dose adjustment of atorvastatin is requir ed. Pitavastatind,i, l (2 mg single dose; simultaneous or 3 days after lenacapavir)  Pitavastatin:  AUC:↔  Cmax:↔ No dose adjustment of pitavastatin and rosuvastatin is required. Rosuvastatind,i,m (5 mg single dose)  Rosuvastatin:  AUC:↑  31%  Cmax:↑ 57% ANTIARRHYTHMICS  Digoxin  Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentration of digoxin may be increased when co-administered with lenacapavir.  Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring of digoxin is recommended.  SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS  Midazolamd,i,n (2.5 mg single dose; oral; simultaneous administration)  
 
 Midazolam:  AUC:  ↑ 259%  Cmax: ↑ 94%  
 1-hydroxymidazolamo: AUC: ↓  24%  Cmax: ↓ 46% Caution is warranted when midazolam or triazolam, is co-administered with Sunlenca . Midazolamd,i,n (2.5 mg single dose; oral;1 day after lenacapavir)  
 Midazolam:  AUC:  ↑ 308%  Cmax: ↑ 116%  
 1-hydroxymidazolamo: AUC: ↓  16%  Cmax: ↓ 48% Triazolam  Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentration of triazolam may be increased when co-administered with lenacapavir.  8 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on concentrations .  Mean percent change in AUC, Cmax Recommendation concerning co-administration with Sunlenca  ANTICOAGULANTS  Direct Oral Anticoagulants  (DOACs)  Rivaroxaban Dabigatran  Edoxaban Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentration of DOAC may be increased when co-administered with lenacapavir.  Due to potential bleeding risk, dose adjustment of DOAC may be required. Consult the Summary of Product Characteristics of the DOAC for further information on use in combination w ith combined moderate CYP3A and P -gp inhibitors.  ANTIFUNGALS  Voriconazolea,b,p,q (400 mg twice daily/200 mg twice daily)  
 Lenacapavir:  AUC:↑  41%  Cmax:↔ No dose adjustment of lenacapavir is required. 
 Itraconazole  Ketoconazole  Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentration of lenacapavir may be increased when co-administered with itraconazole or ketoconazole.  H2-RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS  Famotidinea,b (40 mg once daily, 2 hours before lenacapavir)  Famotidine:  AUC:↑  28%  Cmax:↔ No dose adjustment of famotidine is required. ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES  Ethinylestradiol   Progestin s Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentration s of ethinylestradiol and progestins  may be increased when co -administered with lenacapavir.  No dose adjustment of ethinylestradiol and progestins  is required. GENDER AFFIRMING HORMONES  
17β-estradiol  Anti-androgens  Progestogen  Testosterone  Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentration s of these medicinal products  may be increased when co -administered with lenacapavir.  No dose adjustment of these gender affirming hormones is required. a Fasted .  b This study was conducted using lenacapavir 300  mg single dose  administered orally . c Evaluated as a strong  inducer of CYP3A, and an inducer of P -gp and UGT . d Fed. e Evaluated as a strong  inhibitor of CYP3A, and an inhibitor UGT1A1 and P -gp. f Evaluated as a moderate inducer of CYP3A and an inducer of P -gp. g Evaluated as a strong  inhibitor of CYP3A and an inhibitor of P -gp. h Evaluated as a strong  inhibitor of CYP3A, and an inhibitor and inducer of P -gp. i This study was conducted using lenacapavir  600  mg single dose following a loading regimen of 600  mg twice daily for 2 days, single 600  mg doses of lenacapavir were administered with each co -administered  medicinal product.  j Evaluated as a P -gp substrate.  k Tenofovir alafenamide is converted to tenofovir in vivo . l Evaluated as an OATP substrate.  m Evaluated as an BCRP substrate.  n Evaluated as a CYP3A substrate.  o Major active metabolite of midazolam.  p Evaluated as a strong  inhibitor of CYP3A.  q This st udy was conducted using voriconazole 400 mg loading dose twice daily for a day, followed by 200 mg maintenance dose twice daily . 
 9 