4.5 and 5.1).  Patients treated with Rivaroxaban  Viatris and antiplatelet agen ts should only receive concomitant treatment with NSAIDs if the ben efit outweighs the bleeding ris k. 
 Other haemorrhagic risk factors  As with other antithro mbotics, rivaroxaban  is not recommended i n patients with an increased bleeding risk such as:  
• congenital or acquired bleeding disorders  
• uncontrolled severe art erial hypertension  
• other gastrointestinal disease  without active ul ceration that c an potentially lead to bleeding complications (e.g. inflammator y bowel disease, oesophagitis, g astritis and gastroesophageal reflux disease)  
• vascular retinopathy  
• bronchiectasis or history of pulmonary bleeding  
 It should be used with caution in ACS and CAD/PAD patients:  
• ≥ 75 years of age if co-administe red with ASA alo ne or with ASA  plus clopidogrel or ticlopidine. The benefit-risk of th e treatment should be individually assess ed on a regular basis.  
• with lower body weight (< 60 kg) if co-administered with ASA al one or with ASA plus clopidogrel or ticlopidine.  
• CAD patients with sever e symptomatic heart f ailure. Study data indicate that such patients may benefit less from treatment with r ivaroxaban (see section 5.1).   
 Patients with cancer Patients with malignant  disease may simultaneously be at higher  risk of bleeding an d thrombosis. The individual benefit of  antithrombotic treat ment should be weighe d against risk for b leeding in patients with active cancer dependent on tumour location, antineoplastic  therapy and stage of disease. Tumours located in the gastrointestinal o r genito urinary tract have be en associated with a n increased risk of bleeding during rivaroxaban therapy. In patients with malig nant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, the use of rivaroxaban is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
 Patients with pro sthetic valves  Rivaroxaban should not be used f or thromboprophylaxis in patien ts having recently undergone transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Safety and effic acy of Rivaroxaban Viatris have not been studied in patient s with prosthetic heart valves; therefor e, there are no data to support that Rivaroxaban Viatris provides adequate anticoagulation in this p atient population. Treatment with Rivaroxaban Viatris is not recommended for these patients.  
 Patients with antipho spholipid syndrome   
7 Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban  are not recommended for patients with a history of thro mbosis who are diagnosed with antiphospho lipid syndrome. In particular for patients that are triple positive (for lupus anticoagulant, ant icardiolipin antibodie s, and anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be assoc iated with increased rates of recurrent thrombotic e vents compared with vitamin K antagonist therapy.  
 Patients with prior s troke and/or TIA  Patients with ACS  Rivaroxaban Viatris 2.5 mg is co ntraindicated for the treatment  of ACS in patients with a prior stroke or TIA (see section 4.3). Few ACS  patients with a prior stroke or TIA have been studied but the limited efficacy data available indicate that these patients do  not benefit from treatment.  
 Patients with CAD/PAD  CAD/PAD patients with previous h aemorrhagic or lacunar stroke, or an ischaemic, non-lacunar stroke with in the previous month were not studied (see section 4.3).  Patients after recent revascularisation procedures of the lower  limb due to symptomatic PAD with a previous stroke or TIA were not  studied. Treatment with Rivarox aban Viatris 2.5  mg should be avoided in these patients receiving dual antiplatelet therapy. 
 Spinal/epidural anaesth esia or puncture   When neuraxial anaesthesia (spinal/epidural anaesthesia) or spi nal/epidural puncture is employed, patients treated with antithrombo tic agents for prevention of t hromboembolic compli cations are at risk of developing an epidural or spinal haematoma which can result in long-term or perm anent paralysis. The risk of these events may be increased by the post-operative  use of indwelling ep idural catheters or the concomitant use of medicinal products affecting haemostasis . The risk may also be increased by traumatic or repeated e pidural or spinal pu ncture. Patients are  to be frequently monitored for signs and symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g. numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel or bladder dysfunction). If neurological compromise is noted, urgent diagn osis and treatment is necessary. Prior to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the pot ential benefit vers us the risk in anticoagulated pa tients or in patients to  be anticoagulated for  thromboprophylaxis. There is no clinical experience with the use of Rivaroxaban Viatris 2.5 mg and antip latelet agents in these situations. Platelet aggregation inhibitors should be discontinued as sugge sted by the manufacturer’s prescribing information. To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the co ncurrent use of rivaroxaban and neuraxial (epidural/spinal) anaes thesia or spinal puncture, con sider the pharmacokinetic profile of rivaroxaban. Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lu mbar puncture is best performed when the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is estimated to be low (see section 5.2). However, the exact timing to reach a sufficiently l ow anticoagulant effect in each  patient is not known.  
 Dosing recommendations before and after invasive procedures and  surgical intervention  If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, Rivaroxaban Viatris 2.5 mg should be stopped at least 12 hours before the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the physician. If a patient is to undergo elective surgery and anti -platelet effect is not desired, platelet aggregation inhibitors should be discontinued as directed by th e manufacturer’s prescribing information. If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased r isk of bleeding should be assessed against the urgency of the intervention.  Rivaroxaban Viatris should be restarted as soon as possible aft er the invasive procedure or surgical intervention provided  the clinical situatio n allows and adequat e haemostasis has been established as determined by the treating phys ician (see section 5.2). 
 Elderly population  Increasing age may increase haemorrhagic risk (see sections 5.1  and 5.2). 
 Dermatological reactions  Serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxi c epidermal necrolysis and DRESS syndrome, have been r eported during post-marketing surveillance  in association with the use of rivaroxaban (see section 4.8). Patients appear to be at highest  risk for these reactions early in the  
8 course of therapy: the onset of the reaction occurring in the m ajority of cases within  the first weeks of treatment. Rivaroxaban should be  discontinued at the first appe arance of a severe skin rash (e.g. spreading, intense and/or blistering), or any other sign of hyp ersensitivity in conjun ction with mucosal lesions.  
 Information about excipients  Rivaroxaban Viatris contains lactose. Patients with rare heredi tary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or gluc ose-galactose malabsorption sho uld not take this medicinal product. This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg)  per dosage unit, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms o f interaction  
 CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitors  Co-administratio n of rivaroxaban with ketoconazole (400 mg once  a day) or ritonavir (600 mg twice a day) led to a 2.6 fold / 2.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7 fold / 1.6 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban C max, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which m ay lead to an increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of Rivaroxaban Viat ris is not recommended in patients receiving concomitant systemic tr eatment with azo le-antimycotic s such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole and posaconazole or HIV protease inhibitors. These  active substanc es are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (see section 4.4). 
 Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxab an elimination pa thways, either CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma con centrations to a lesser extent. Clarithromycin (500 mg twice a day ), for instance, considered a s a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and moderate P-gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 fold increase in mean riv aroxaban AUC and a 1.4 fold increase in Cmax. The interaction with clarithromycin is  likely not clinica lly relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high -risk patients. (For patients wi th renal impairment: see section 4.4).  Erythromycin (500 mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P-gp moderately , led to a 1.3 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and C max. The interaction with ery thromycin is likely not clinically relevant in most patie nts but can be p otentially sig nificant in high-risk patients.  In subjects with mild renal impai rment erythromycin (500 mg thr ee times a day) led to a 1.8 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in C max when compared to subjects with normal renal function. In subjects with moderate renal impairme nt, erythromycin led to a 2.0 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in C max when compared to subjects with normal renal function.  The effect of eryth romycin is additive t o that of renal impairment (see section 4.4).   Fluconazole (400 mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A 4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.3 fold increase in mea n Cmax. The interaction with fluconazole is likely not clini cally relevant in most patients but can be potentially  significant in high-risk patients. (For patients with  renal impairment: see section  4.4). 
 Given the limited clinical data av ailable with dro nedarone, co- administration with rivaroxaban should be avoided. 
 Anticoagulants  After combined adminis tration of enoxaparin  (40 mg single dose)  with rivaroxaban  (10 mg single dose) an additive effect on anti-factor Xa activity was observe d without any additional effects on clotting tests (PT, a 
 PTT). Enoxapa rin did not affect the pharma cokinetics of rivaroxaban.  Due to the increased bleeding risk care is to be taken if patie nts are treated conc omitantly with any other anticoagulants (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
 NSAIDs/platelet aggr egation inhibitors  No clinically relevant prolonga tion of bleeding time was observ ed after concomitant  administration of rivaroxaban (15 mg) and 500 mg naproxen. Nevertheless, there ma y be individuals with a more pronounced pharmacodynamic response.   
9 No clinically significant pharmac okinetic or pharmacodynamic in teractions were observed when rivaroxaban was co-administered with 500 mg acetylsalicylic aci d.  Clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg maintenance dose) did not show a pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15 mg) but a rele vant increase in bleeding time was observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to pl atelet aggregation, P-selectin or GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels.  Care is to be taken if  patients are treate d concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal pro ducts typically increase the bleeding risk (see section 4.4). 
 SSRIs/SNRIs  As with other anticoagulants the possibility may exist that pat ients are at increased risk of bleeding in case of concomitant use with SSRIs  or SNRIs due to their report ed effect on pla telets. When concomitantly used in t he rivaroxaban clinical programme, numer ically higher rates of major or non-major clinically relevant bleedin g were observed in all treatme nt groups. 
 Warfarin  Converting patients from the vitamin K antagonist warfarin (INR  2.0 to 3.0) to rivaroxaban (20 mg) or from rivaroxaban (20 mg) to warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) increased  prothrombin time/INR (Neoplastin) more than additively (i ndividual INR values up to 12 may be obs erved), whereas effects on a 
 PTT, inhibition of factor X a activity and endogenous thrombin potent ial were additive.  If it is desired to test the pha rmacodynamic effects of rivarox aban during the conversion period, anti-factor Xa activity, Pi 
 CT, and Heptest can be used as these test s were not affected by warfarin. On the fourth day after the last dose o f warfarin, all tests (includin g PT, a 
 PTT, inhibition of factor Xa activity and ETP) reflected only the effect of rivaroxaban.  If it is desired to test the pha rmacodynamic effects of warfari n during the conversion period, INR measurement can be used at the Ctrough of rivaroxaban (24 hours after the previous intake of rivaroxaban) as this test is min imally affected by rivaroxaban at this time point.  No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between warfarin an d rivaroxaban. 
 CYP3A4 inducers  Co-administration of  rivaroxaban with the strong CYP3A4 inducer  rifampicin led to an approximate 
50% decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases i n its pharmacodynamic effects. The concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducer s (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or St. John’s Wort ( Hypericum perforatum )) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban plasma concentrations. Therefore,  concomitant administration of  strong CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and sy mptoms of thrombosis.  
 Other concomitant therapies  No clinically significant pharmac okinetic or pharmacodynamic in teractions were observed when rivaroxaban was co-administered with midazolam (s ubstrate of CY P3A4), digoxin (su bstrate of P-gp), atorvastatin (substrate of CYP3A 4 and P-gp) or omeprazole (prot on pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4 .  No clinically relevant interaction with foo d was observed (see section 4.2). 
 Laboratory parameters  Clotting parameters (e.g. PT, a 
 P TT, Hep test) are affected as e xpected by the mode of action of rivaroxaban (see section 5.1). 
 
