4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P -gp Coadministration of apixaban with ketoconazole (400 mg once a day), a strong inhibitor of both CYP3A4 and P -gp, led to a 2-fold increase in mean apixaban AUC and a 1.6 -fold increase in mean apixaban C max. 
 The use of apixaban is not recommended in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P -gp, such as azole-antimycotics (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole and posaconazole) and HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) (see section  4.4). 
 Active substances which are not considered strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P -gp, (e .g., amiodarone, clarithromycin, diltiazem, fluconazole, naproxen, quinidine, verapamil) are expected to increase apixaban plasma concentration to a lesser extent. No dose adjustment for apixaban is required when coadministered with agents that are not stro ng inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P -gp. For example, diltiazem (360  mg once a day), considered a moderate CYP3A4 and a weak P -gp inhibitor, led to a 1.4 -fold increase in mean apixaban AUC and a 1.3 -fold increase in Cmax. Naproxen (500 mg, single dose) an in hibitor of P -gp but not an inhibitor of CYP3A4, led to a 1.5-fold and 1.6-fold increase in mean apixaban AUC and C max, respectively. Clarithromycin (500  mg, twice a day), an inhibitor of P -gp and a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, led to a 1.6-fold and 1.3-fold  increase in mean apixaban AUC and C max respectively.  
 Inducers of CYP3A4 and P -gp 
 Coadministration of apixaban with rifampicin, a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P -gp, led to an approximate 54% and 42% decrease in mean apixaban AUC and Cmax, respectively. The concomitant use of apixaban with other strong CYP3A4 and P -gp inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or St. John’s Wort) may also lead to reduced apixaban plasma concentrations. No dose adjustment for apixaban is required during concomitant therapy with such medicinal products, however in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with strong inducers of both CYP3A4 and P -gp apixaban should be used with caution for the prevention of VTE in elective hip or knee replacement surgery, for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with NVAF and for the prevention of recurrent DVT and PE.  
 Apixaban is not recommended for the treatment of DVT and PE in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with strong ind ucers of both CYP3A4 and P -gp since efficacy may be compromised (see section  4.4). 
 Anticoagulants, platelet aggregation inhibitors, SSRIs/SNRIs and NSAIDs  
 Due to an increased bleeding risk, concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulants is contraindicated except under specific circumstances of switching anticoagulant therapy, when UFH is given at doses necessary to maintain an open central venous or arterial catheter or when UFH is given during catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation (see section  4.3). 
 After combined administration of enoxaparin (40 mg single dose) with apixaban (5 mg single dose), an additive effect on anti -Factor Xa activity was observed.  
 Pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were not evident when apixaban was coadministered with ASA 325  mg once a day.  
 Apixaban coadministered with clopidogrel (75 mg once a day) or with the combination of clopidogrel 
75 mg and ASA 162 mg once dail y, or with prasugrel (60 mg followed by 10 mg once daily) in Phase I studies did not show a relevant increase in template bleeding time, or further inhibition of 11 platelet aggregation, compared to administration of the antiplatelet agents without apixaban. Increases in clotting tests (PT, INR, and a 
 PTT) were consistent with the effects of apixaban alone.  
 Naproxen (500 mg), an inhibitor of P -gp, led to a 1.5- fold and 1.6-fold increase in mean apixaban AUC and Cmax, respectively. Corresponding increases in clotting tests were observed for apixaban. No changes were observed in the effect of naproxen on arachidonic acid -induced platelet aggregation and no clinically relevant prolongation of bleeding time was observed after concomitant administration of apixaban and naproxen.  
 Despite these findings, there may be individuals with a more pronounced pharmacodynamic response when antiplatelet agents are coadministered with apixaban. Apixaban should be used with caution when coadministered with SSRIs/SNRIs, NSAIDs, AS A and/or P2Y12 inhibitors because these medicinal products typically increase the bleeding risk (see section  4.4). 
 There is limited experience of co -administration with other platelet aggregation inhibitors (such as GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonists, dipyridamole, dextran or sulfinpyrazone) or thrombolytic agents. As such agents increase the bleeding risk, co -administration of these medicinal products with apixaban is not recommended (see section  4.4). 
 Other concomitant therapies  
 No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when apixaban was coadministered with atenolol or famotidine. Coadministration of apixaban 10 mg with atenolol 100 mg did not have a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of apixaba n. Following administration of the two medicinal products together, mean apixaban AUC and Cmax were 
15% and 18% lower than when administered alone. The administration of apixaban 10 mg with famotidine 40  mg had no effect on apixaban AUC or C max. 
 Effect of apixaban on other medicinal products  
 In vitro  apixaban studies showed no inhibitory effect on the activity of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 (IC50  > 45 μM) and weak inhibitory effect on the activity of CYP2C19 (IC50  > 20 μM) at concentrations that are significantly greater than peak plasma concentrations observed in patients. Apixaban did not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP3A4/5 at a concentration up to 20 μM. Therefore, apixaban is not expected to alter the metabolic clearance of coadministered medicinal products that are metabolised by these enzymes. Apixaban is not a significant inhibitor of P-gp.  
 In studies conducted in healthy subjects, as described below, apixaban did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of digoxin, naproxen, or atenolol.  
 Digoxin  Coadministration of apixaban (20 mg once a day) and digoxin (0.25  mg once a day), a P -gp substrate, did not affect digoxin AUC or Cmax. Therefore, apixaban does not inhibit P -gp mediated substrate transport.  
 Naproxen  Coadministration of single doses of apixaban (10 mg) and naproxen (500 mg), a commonly used NSAID, did not have any effect on the naproxen AUC or C max. 
 Atenolol  Coadministration of a single dose of apixaban (10 mg)  and atenolol (100 mg), a common beta -blocker, did not alter the pharmacokinetics of atenolol.  
 Activated charcoal 
 Administration of activated charcoal reduces apixaban exposure (see section 4.9). 12  
