4.5 and 5.2). In these cases, no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
 Limitations of the clinical data  
 In clinical trials in c 
 IAI, there were no immunocompromised patients, and the majority of patients (80%) had APACHE II scores <10 at baseline; 5.4% of the patients had concurrent bacteraemia at baseline; 34% of the patients had complicated appendicitis.  
 Coagulopathy Eravacycline may prolong both prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (a 
 PTT).  Additionally, hypofibrinogenaemia has been reported with the use of eravacycline. Therefore, blood coagulation parameters such as PT or other suitable anticoagulation test, including blood fibrinogen, should be monitored prior to treatment initiation with eravacycline and regularly while on treatment . 
 4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Potential for other medicinal products to affect the pharmacokinetics of eravacycline 
 Concomitant administration of the strong CYP 3A4/3A5 inducer rifampi cin altered the pharmacokinetics of eravacycline, decreasing exposure by approximately 32 % and increasing clearance by approximately 54%. The eravacycline dose should be increased by approximately 50% (1.5 mg/kg intravenous q12h) when co- administered with rifampi cin or other strong CYP3A inducers such as phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin and St. John’s Wort (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  Concomitant administration of the strong CYP3A inhibitor itraconazole altered the pharmacokinetics of eravacycline, increasing Cmax by approximately 5% and AUC 0-24 by approximately 23% , and decreasing clearance. The increased exposure is not likely to be clinically significant; thus, no dose adjustment is required when eravacycline is co -administered with CYP3A inhibitors. However, patients receiving strong CYP3A inhibitors (for example ritonavir, itraconazole, clarithromycin) with a combination of factors that may increase the exposure, such as severe hepatic impairment and/or obesity should be monitored for adverse reactions  (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
 In vitro , eravacycline was shown to be a substrate for the transporters P-gp, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. A drug- drug interaction in vivo  cannot be excluded and co -administration of eravacycline and other 5 medicin al products that inhibit these transporters (examples of OATP1B1/3 inhibitors ; atazanavir, cyclosporine, lopinavir, and saquinavir ) may increase the eravacycline plasma concentration.   
 Potential for eravacycline to affect the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products  
 In vitro , eravacycline and its metabolites are not inhibitors or inducers of CYP enzymes or transport proteins (see section 5.2). Interactions with medicinal products that are substrates for these enzymes or transporters are therefore unlikely.  
 
