4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Antiepileptic medicinal products  
 Pre-marketing data from clinical studies conducted in adults indicate that levetiracetam  did not influence the serum concentrations of existing antiepileptic medicinal products (phenytoin, carbamazepine, valproic acid, phenobarbital, lamotrigine, gabapentin and primidone) and that these antiepileptic medicinal products did not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam . 
 As in adults, there is no evidence of clinically significant medicinal product interactions in paediatric patients receiving up to 60  mg/kg/day levetiracetam.  A retrospective assessment of pharmacokinetic interactions in  children and adolescents with epilepsy (4 to 17 years) confirmed that adjunctive therapy with orally administered levetiracetam did not influence the steady -state serum concentrations of concomitantly administered carbamazepine and valproate. However, dat a suggested a 20  % higher levetiracetam clearance in children taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic medicinal products. Dose adjustment is not required.  
 Probenecid  
 Probenecid (500 mg four times daily), a renal tubular secretion blocking agent, has been sh own to inhibit the renal clearance of the primary metabolite, but not of levetiracetam. Nevertheless, the concentration of this metabolite remains low.  
 Methotrexate 
 Concomitant administration of levetiracetam and methotrexate has been reported to decrease methotrexate clearance, resulting in increased/prolonged blood methotrexate concentration to potentially toxic levels. Blood methotrexate and levetiracetam levels should be carefully monitored in patients treated concomitantly with the two drugs.  
 Oral contraceptives and other pharmacokinetics interactions 
 Levetiracetam 1000  mg daily did not influence the pharmacokinetics of oral contraceptives (ethinyl -estradiol and levonorgestrel); endocrine parameters (luteinizing hormone and progesterone) were not modified. Levetiracetam 2000  mg daily did not influence the pharmacokinetics of digoxin and warfarin; prothrombin times were not modified. Co-administration with digoxin, oral contraceptives and warfarin did not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiraceta m. 
 Laxatives  
 There have been isolated reports of decreased levetiracetam efficacy when the osmotic laxative macrogol has been concomitantly administered with oral levetiracetam. Therefore, macrogol should not be taken orally for one hour before and for one hour after taking levetiracetam.  
 Food and alcohol  
 The extent of absorption of levetiracetam was not altered by food, but the rate of absorption was slightly reduced.  No data on the interaction of levetiracetam with alcohol are available.  
 9 