4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 As a cholinesterase inhibitor, rivast igmine may exaggerate the effects of succinylcholine-type muscle relaxants during anaesthesia. Caution is recommended when selecting anaesthetic agents. Possible dose adjustments or temporarily stopping treatment can be considered if needed.  
 In view of i ts pharmacodynamic effects and possible additive effects, rivastigmine should not be given concomitantly with other cholinomimetic substances . Rivastigmine  might interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medicinal products  (e.g. oxybutynin, tolterodine) .  
 Additiv e effe cts leading to bradycardia (which may result in syncope) have been  reported with the combined us e of various beta-blockers (including atenolol) and rivastigmine. Car diovascular beta-blockers are ex pected to be associated with the greatest risk, but reports have also been received in patients using other beta-blockers. Therefore, caution should be exercised when  rivastigmine is combined wi th beta-b lockers and also other bradycardia agents (e.g.class III antiarrhythmic agents, calci um channel antagonists, digitalis glycoside, pilocarpin). 
 Since bradycardia constitutes a risk factor in the occurrence of torsades de pointes, the combination of rivastigmi ne with torsades de poi ntes-induc ing medicinal products such as antipsychotics i.e. some phenot hiazines (chlorpromazine, levomepromazine), benzamides (sulpiride, sultopride, ami sulpride, tiapride, veralipride), pimozide, ha loperi dol, droperi dol, cisaprid e, citalopram, diphemanil, erythromycin IV, halofantrin, mizolastin, methadone , pentamidine and moxifl oxacine should be observed with  caution and clinical monito ring (ECG) may also be  required. 
 No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between rivastigmine and digoxin, warfarin, diazepam or fluoxetine in studies in healthy volunteers. The inc rease in prothrombin time induced by warfarin is 6 not affected by administration of rivastigmine. No untoward effects on cardiac  conduction were observed following concomitant administration of digoxin and rivastigmine.  
 According to its metabolism, metabolic interactions with other medicinal products appear unlikely, although rivastigmine may inhibit the butyrylcholinesterase mediated metabolism of other substances.  
 