4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 As a cholinesterase inhibitor, rivastigmine may exaggerate the effects of succinylcholine-type muscle relaxants during anaesthesia. Caution is recommended when selecting anaesthetic agents. Possible dose adjustments or temporarily stopping treatment can be considered if needed.  
 In vie w of its pharmacodynamic effects and possible additive effects, rivastigmine should not be given concomitantly with other cholinomimetic substances . Rivastigmine might interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medicinal products  (e.g. oxybutynin, tolt erodine) .  
 Additive effects leading to bradycardia (which may result in syncope) have been reported with the combined use of various beta -blockers (including atenolol) and rivastigmine. Cardiovascular beta - blockers are expected to be associated with the greatest risk, but reports have also been received in patients using other beta -blockers. Therefore, caution should be exercised when rivastigmine is combined with beta -blockers and also other bradycardia agents (e.g.class III antiarrhythmic agents, calciu m channel antagonists, digitalis glycoside, pilocarpin). 
 Since bradycardia constitutes a risk factor in the occurrence of torsades de pointes, the combination of rivastigmine with torsades de pointes -inducing medicinal products such as antipsychotics i.e.  some phenothiazines (chlorpromazine, levomepromazine), benzamides (sulpiride, sultopride, amisulpride, tiapride, veralipride), pimozide, haloperidol, droperidol, cisapride, citalopram, diphemanil, erythromycin IV, halofantrin, mizolastin, methadone, penta midine and moxifloxacine should be observed with caution and clinical monitoring (ECG) may also be required.  
 No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between rivastigmine and digoxin, warfarin, diazepam or fluoxetine in studies in healthy volunteers. T he increase in prothrombin time induced by warfarin is 6 not affected by administration of rivastigmine. No untoward effects on cardiac conduction were observed following concomitant administration of digoxin and rivastigmine.  
 According to its metabolism, metabolic interactions with other medicinal products appear unlikely, although rivastigmine may inhibit the butyrylcholinesterase mediated metabolism of other substances.  
 