4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 The information in this s ection is based on binding affinity between sugammadex and other medicinal products, non -clinical experiments, clinical studies and simulations using a model taking into account the pharmacodynamic effect of neuromuscular blocking agents and the pharmacoki netic interaction between neuromuscular blocking agents and sugammadex. Based on these data, no clinically significant pharmacodynamic interaction with other medicinal products is expected, with exception of the following:  For toremifene and fusidic acid d isplacement interactions could not be excluded (no clinically relevant capturing interactions are expected).  For hormonal contraceptives a clinically relevant capturing interaction could not be excluded (no displacement interactions are expected).  
 Interactions potentially affecting the efficacy of sugammadex (displacement interactions):  Due to the administration of certain medicinal products after sugammadex, theoretically rocuronium or vecuronium could be displaced from sugammadex. As a result recurrence of neuromuscular  
7 blockade might be observed. In this situation the patient must be v entilated. Administration of the medicinal product which caused displacement should be stopped in case of an infusion. In situations when potential displacement interactions can be anticipated, patients should be carefully monitored for signs of recurrence  of neuromuscular blockade (approximately up to 15  minutes) after parenteral  administration of another medicinal product occurring within a period of 7.5  hours after sugammadex administration.  
 Toremifene:  For toremifene, which has a relatively high binding affinity for sugammadex and for which relatively high plasma concentrations might be present, some displacement of vecuronium or rocuronium from the complex with sugammadex could occur. Clinicians should be aware that the recovery of the T 4/T1 ratio to 0.9 could therefore be delayed in patients who have received toremifene on the same day of the operation.  
 Intravenous administration of fusidic acid:  The use of fusidic acid in the pre -operative phase may give some delay in the recovery of the T 4/T1 ratio to 0.9. No recurrence of neuromuscular blockade is expected in the post -operative phase, since the infusion rate of fusidic acid is over a period of several hours and the blood levels are cumulative over 2-3 days. For re -administration of sugammadex see section  4.2. 
 Interactions potentially affecting the efficacy of other medicinal products (capturing interactions):  Due to the administration of sugammadex, certain medicinal products could become less effective due to a lowering of the (free) plasma concentrations. If such a situation is observed, the clinician is advised to consider the re -administration of the medicinal product, the administration of a therapeutically equivalent medicinal product (preferably from a different chemical class) a nd/or nonpharmacological interventions as appropriate.  
 Hormonal contraceptives:  The interaction between 4  mg/kg sugammadex and a progestogen was predicted to lead to a decrease in progestogen exposure (34% of AUC) similar to the decrease seen when a daily  dose of an oral contraceptive is taken 12  hours too late, which might lead to a reduction in effectiveness. For oestrogens, the effect is expected to be lower. Therefore the administration of a bolus dose of sugammadex is considered to be equivalent to on e missed daily dose of oral contraceptive steroids (either combined or progestogen only). If sugammadex is administered at the same day as an oral contraceptive is taken reference is made to missed dose advice in the package leaflet of the oral contracepti ve. In the case of non-oral hormonal contraceptives, the patient must use an additional non hormonal contraceptive method for the next 7  days and refer to the advice in the package leaflet of the product. 
 Interactions due to the lasting effect of rocuroni um or vecuronium:  When medicinal products which potentiate neuromuscular blockade are used in the post -operative period special attention should be paid to the possibility of recurrence of neuromuscular blockade. Please refer to the package leaflet of rocu ronium or vecuronium for a list of the specific medicinal products which potentiate neuromuscular blockade. In case recurrence of neuromuscular blockade is observed, the patient may require mechanical ventilation and re -administration of sugammadex (see section 4.2). 
 Interference with laboratory tests:  In general  sugammadex does not interfere with laboratory tests, with the possible exception of the serum progesterone assay. Interference with this test is observed at sugammadex plasma concentrations of 100  microgram/m 
 L (peak plasma level following 8  mg/kg bolus in jection). 
 In a study in volunteers doses of 4  mg/kg and 16  mg/kg of sugammadex resulted in maximum mean prolongations of a 
 PTT by 17 and 22% respectively and of PT(INR) by 11 and 22% respectively.  These limited mean a 
 PTT and PT(INR) prolongations were of s hort duration (≤  30 minutes).  
8 In in vitro experiments a pharmacodynamic interaction (a 
 PTT and PT prolongation) was noted with vitamin K antagonists, unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparinoids, rivaroxaban and dabigatran (see section  4.4). 
 Paediatric population  No formal interaction studies have been performed. The above -mentioned interactions for adults and the warnings in section  4.4 should also be taken into account for the paediatric population.  
 
