4.5 and Table 1).Excipients 
 PREVYMIS contains lactose monohydrate. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactoseintolerance, total lactase def iciency or glucose
-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinalproduct.This medicinal product  contains  less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is
 to say essentially
‘sodium -free’.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 General inf ormation about dif f erences in exposure between dif f erent letermovir treatment regimens 
-The estimated letermovir plasma exposure is dif f erent depending on the dose regimen used (see tablein section 5.2). Theref ore, the clinical consequences of  drug interactions for letermovir will bedependent on which letermovir regimen is used and whether or not letermovir is combined withcyclosporine.
-The combination of  cyclosporine and letermovir may lead to more marked or additional ef f ects onconcomita nt medicinal products as compared to letermovir alone (see Table 1).Ef fect of  other medicinal products on letermovir 
 The elimination pathways of  letermovir in vivo  are biliary excretion and glucuronidation. The relativeimportance of these pathways is unknown. Both elimination pathways involve active uptake into thehepatocyte through the hepatic uptake transporters OATP1B1/ 3. Af ter uptake, glucuronidation ofletermovir is mediated by UGT1A1 and 3. Letermovir also appears to be subject to P
-gp and BCRPmediated ef f lux in the liver and intestine (see section 5.2).Inducers of drug metaboli sing enzymes or transporters 
 Co-administration of  PREVYMIS
 (with or without cyclosporine) with strong and moderate inducersof  transporters (e.g., P-gp) and/or enzymes (e.g., UGTs) is not recommended, as it may lead tosubtherapeutic letermovir exposure (see Table 1). 
 
-Examples of  strong inducers include rif ampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine, St
. John’s wort(Hypericum perforatum
), rif abutin and phenobarbital.
-Examples of  moderate inducers include thioridazine, modaf inil, ritonavir, lopinavir, ef avirenz andetravirine . Rif ampicin co
-administration resulted in an initial increase in letermovir plasma concentrations (due to 
 OATP1B1/3 and/or P -gp inhibition) that is not clinically relevant, f ollowed by clinically relevantdecreases in letermovir plasma concentrations (due to induction of  P
-gp/UGT) with continuedrif ampicin co
-administration (see Table 1).
 6Additional ef f ects of other products on letermovir relevant when combined with cyclosporine 
 Inhibitors of OATP1B1 or 3 Co-administration of  PREVYMIS with medicinal products that are inhibitors of  OATP1B1/3transporters may result in increased letermovir plasma concentrations. If  PREVYMIS is co
-administered with cyclosporine (a potent OATP1B1/3 inhibitor), the recommended dose of 
 PREVYMIS is 240
 mg once daily (see Table 1 and sections 4.2 and 5.2). Caution is advised if  other 
 OATP1B1/3 inhibitors are added to letermovir combined with cyclosporine.
-Examples of  OATP1B1 inhibitors include gemf ibrozil, erythromycin, clarithromycin, and severalprotease inhibitors (atazanavir, simeprevir ).Inhibitors of P
-gp/BCRPIn vitro  results indicate that letermovir is a substrate of  P
-gp/BCRP. Changes in letermovir plasmaconcentrations due to inhibition of  P
-gp/BCRP by itraconazole
 were not  clinically relevant.Ef f ect of  letermovir  on other medicinal products 
 Medicinal products mainly eliminated through metabolism or influenced by active transport Letermovir is a general inducer  in vivo of  enzymes and transporters . Unless a particular enzyme ortransporter is also inhibited (see below) induction can be expected. Theref ore , letermovir maypotentially lead to decreased plasma exposure and possibly reduced ef f icacy of  co
-administeredmedicinal products that are mainly eliminated through metabolism or by active transport
.The size of  the induction ef f ect is dependent on letermovir route of  administration and whethercyclosporine
 is concomitantly used
. The f ull induction ef f ect can be expected af ter 10
-14 days ofletermovir treatment. The time needed to reach steady state of  a specif ic aff ected medicinal productwill also inf luence the time needed to reach f ull ef f ect on the plasma concentrations.In vitro
, letermovir is an inhibitor of
 CYP3A, CYP2C8, CYP2B6, BCRP, UGT1A1, OATP2B1, and 
 OAT3 at in vivo  relevant concentrations. In vivo  studies are available investigating the net ef f ect on 
 CYP3A4, P -gp, OATP1B1/3 additionally on CYP2C19. The net ef f ect in vivo  on the other listedenzymes and transporters is not known.  Detailed inf ormation is presented below.It is unknown whether letermovir may af f ect the exposure of  piperacillin/tazobactam, amphotericine Band micafungin. The potential interaction between letermovir and these medicinal products have notbeen investigated. There is a theoretical risk of  reduced exposure due to induction but the size of  theeff ect and thus clinical relevance is presently unknown.Medicinal products metabolised by CYP3ALetermovir is a moderate inhibitor of  CYP3A
 in vivo . Co-administration of  PREVYMIS
 with oralmidazolam (a CYP3A substrate) results in 2
-3-f old increased midazolam plasma concentrations. Co
-administration of  PREVYMIS
 may result in clinically relevant increases in the plasma concentrationsof  co -administered CYP3A substrates (see sections 4.3, 4.4, and 5.2). 
-Examples of  such medicinal products include certain immunosuppressants (e.g., cyclosporine,tacrolimus, sirolimus), HMG
-Co 
 A reductase inhibitors, and amiodarone (see Table 1). Pimozide andergot alka loids are contraindicated (see section 4.3).The size of  the CYP3A inhibitory ef f ect is dependent on letermovir route of  administration andwhether cyclosporine is concomitantly used.Due to time dependent inhibition and simultaneous induction the net enzyme inhibitory ef f ect may notbe reached until af ter 10
-14 days. The time needed to reach steady state of  a specif ic af f ectedmedicinal product will also inf luence the time needed to reach f ull ef f ect on the plasma concentrations.When ending treatment, it takes 10
-
14 days f or the inhibitory ef f ect to disappear. If  monitoring isapplied, this is recommended the f irst 2 weeks af ter initiating and ending letermovir (see section 4.4)as well as af ter changing route of  letermovir administration.7Medicinal products transported  by OATP1B1/3Letermovir is an inhibitor of  OATP1B1/3 transporters
. Administration of  PREVYMIS
 may result in aclinically relevant increase in plasma concentrations of  co-administered medicinal products that are 
 OATP1B1/3 substrates. 
-Examples of  such medicinal products include HMG
-Co 
 A reductase inhibitors, f exofenadine,repaglinide and glyburide (see Table 1). Comparing letermovir regimen administered withoutcyclosporine, the ef f ect is more marked af ter intravenous
 than oral letermovir. The magnitude of the OATP1B1/3 inhibition on co
-administered medicinal products is likely greaterwhen PREVYMIS
 is co -administered with cyclosporine (a potent OATP1B1/3 inhibitor). This
 needsto be considered when the letermovir regimen is changed during treatment with an OATP1B1/3substrate.Medicinal products metabolised by CYP2C9 and/or CYP2C19Co-administration of  PREVYMIS
 with voriconazole (a CYP2C19 substrate) results in signif icantlydecreased voriconazole plasma concentrations, indicating that letermovir is an inducer of  CYP2C19.CYP2C9 is likely also induced. Letermovir has the potential to decrease the exposure of  CYP
2C9and/or CYP2C19 substrates potentially resulting in subtherapeutic levels. 
-Examples of  such medicinal products include warf arin, voriconazole, diazepam, lansoprazole,omeprazole, esomeprazole, pantoprazole, tilidine, tolbutamide (see Table 1).
 The eff ect is expected to be less pronounced f or oral letermovir without cyclosporine, than intravenousletermovir with or without cyclosporine, or oral letermovir with cyclosporine. This needs to beconsidered when the letermovir regimen is changed during treatment with a CYP2C9 or CYP2C19substrate.  See also general inf ormation on induction above regarding time courses of the interaction.Medicinal products metabolised by CYP2C8Letermovir inhibits CYP2C8 in vitro  but may also induce CYP2C8 based on its induction potential
.The net ef f ect in vivo is unknown. 
-An e xample of  a medicinal product which is mainly eliminated by CYP2C8 is repaglinide (see 
 Table  1)
. Concomitant use of  repaglinide and letermovir with or without cyclosporine is notrecommended.Medicinal products transported by P-gp in the intestine 
 Letermovir is an inducer of  intestinal P
-gp. Administration of  PREVYMIS
 may result in a clinicallyrelevant decrease in plasma concentrations of co
-administered medicinal products that aresignif icantly transported by P
-gp in the intestine such as dabigatran and
 sofosbuvir.Medicinal products metabolised by CYP2B6, UGT1A1 or transported by BCRP or OATP2B1Letermovir is a general inducer
 in vivo but has also been observed to inhibit CYP2B6, UGT1A1
,BCRP, and OATP2B1
 in vitro
. The net ef f ect in vivo  is unknown. Theref ore
, the plasmaconcentrations of medicinal products that are substrates of these enzymes or transporters may increaseor decrease when co
-administered with letermovir. Additional monitoring may be recommended; ref erto the prescribing inf ormation f or such medicinal products.
 
- Examples of  medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP2B6 include bupropion.
- Examples of  medicinal products metabolised by UGT1A1 are raltegravir and dolutegravir.
- Examples of  medicinal products transported by BCRP include rosuvastatin and sulf asalazine.
- An example of  a medicinal product transported by OATP2B1 is celiprolol.Medicinal products transported by the renal transporter OAT3In vitro  data indicate that letermovir is an inhibitor of  OAT3; theref ore, letermovir may be an OAT3inhibitor in vivo . Plasma concentrations of  medicinal products transported by OAT3 may be increased.
-Examples of  medicinal products transported by OAT3 includes ciprof loxacin, tenof ovir, imipenem,and cilastin.8General inf ormation 
 If  dose adjustments of  concomitant medicinal products are made due to treatment with PREVYMIS
,doses should be readjusted after treatment with PREVYMIS
 is completed. A dose adjustment mayalso be needed when changing route of administration or immunosuppressant.Table 1 provides a listing of  established or potentially clinically signif icant medicinal productinteractions. The medicinal product interactions described are based on studies conducted with 
 PREVYMIS
 or are predicted medicinal product interactions that may occur with PREVYMIS
 (seesections 4.3, 4.4, 5.1, and 5.2). Table 1: Interactions
 and dose recommendations with other medicinal products.
 Note that thetable is not extensive but provides examples of clinically relevant interactions. See also thegeneral text on DDIs above.Unless otherwise specified, interaction studies have been performed with oral letermovir withoutcyclosporine. Please note that the interaction potential and clinical consequences may bedifferent depending on whether letermovir is administered orally or
 intravenous
, and whethercyclosporine is concomitantly used. When changing the route of administration, or if changingimmunosuppressant, the recommendation concerning co
-administration should be revisited. Concomitantmedicinal product Effect on concentration
†Mean ratio (90 % confidenceinterval) for AUC, Cmax(likely mechanism of action)Recommendations concerning co
-administration with PREVYMISAntibioticsnaf cillin 
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ letermovir(P-gp/UGT induction)Nafcillin may decrease plasmaconcentrations of letermovir.Co-administration of  PREVYMIS andnafcillin is not recommended.Antifungalsf luconazole(400 mg singledose)/letermovir(480 mg single dose)
↔ fluconazole 
 AUC 1.03 (0.99, 1.08)Cmax 
0.95 (0.92, 0.99)
↔ letermovir 
 AUC 
1.11 (1.01, 1.23)Cmax 1.06 (0.93, 1.21)Interaction at steady state notstudied.Expected;
↔ fluconazole
↔ letermovir No dose adjustment required.
 itraconazole(200 mg once daily 
 PO
)/letermovir(480 mg once daily 
 PO)↔ itraconazole  AUC 0.76 (0.71, 0.81)Cmax 0.84 (0.76, 0.92)
↔ letermovir 
 AUC 1.33 (1.17, 1.51)Cmax 1.21 (1.05, 1.39)No dose adjustment required.posaconazole
‡(300 mg singledose)/ letermovir(480 mg daily)↔ posaconazole 
 AUC 0.98 (0.82, 1.17)Cmax 
1.11 (0.95, 1.29)No dose adjustment required.9Concomitantmedicinal product Effect on concentration
†Mean ratio (90 % confidenceinterval) for AUC, Cmax(likely mechanism of action)Recommendations concerning co
-administration with PREVYMISvoriconazole
‡(200 mg twicedaily)/ letermovir(480 mg daily)↓ voriconazole 
 AUC 0.56 (0.51, 0.62)Cmax 
0.61 (0.53, 0.71)(CYP2C9/19 induction)If  concomitant administration is necessary,TDM for voriconazole
 is recommendedthe f irst 
2 weeks af ter initiating or endingletermovir, as well as af ter changing routeof  administration of  letermovir orimmunosuppressant.Antimycobacterialsrif abutin Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ letermovir(P-gp/UGT induction)Rif abutin may decrease plasmaconcentrations of letermovir.Co-administration of  PREVYMIS andrif abutin is not recommended.rif ampicin 
 Multiple dose  rif ampicin decreases plasmaconcentrations of letermovir. Co-administration of  PREVYMIS andrif ampicin is not recommended.(600 mg single dose 
 PO)/ letermovir(480 mg single dose 
 PO)↔letermovir 
 AUC 2.03 (1.84, 2.26)Cmax 
1.59 (1.46, 1.74)C24 
2.01 (1.59, 2.54)(OATP1B1/3 and/or P -gpinhibition)(600 mg single doseintravenous )/letermovir (480
 mgsingle dose PO)
↔  letermovir 
 AUC 1.58 (1.38, 1.81)Cmax 
1.37 (1.16, 1.61)C24 
0.78 (0.65, 0.93)(OATP1B1/3 and/or P
-gpinhibition)(600 mg once daily 
 PO)/ letermovir(480 mg once daily 
 PO)↓ letermovir 
 AUC 0.81 (0.67, 0.98)Cmax 
1.01 (0.79, 1.28)C24 0.14 (0.11, 0.19)(Sum of  OATP1B1/3 and/or 
 P-gp inhibition and P
-gp/UGTinduction)(600 mg once daily 
 PO (24  hours af terrif ampicin) )§/letermovir (
480 mgonce daily PO)
↓ letermovir 
 AUC 0.15 (0.13, 0.17)Cmax 
0.27 (0.22, 0.31)C24 0.09 (0.06, 0.12)(P-gp/UGT induction)Antipsychoticsthioridazine 
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ letermovir(P-gp/UGT induction)Thioridazine may decrease plasmaconcentrations of letermovir. Co-administration of  PREVYMIS andthioridazine is not recommended.Endothelin antagonistsbosentan  Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ letermovir(P-gp/UGT induction)Bosentan may decrease plasmaconcentrations of letermovir. Co-administration of  PREVYMIS andbosentan is not recommended.10Concomitantmedicinal product Effect on concentration
†Mean ratio (90 % confidenceinterval) for AUC, Cmax(likely mechanism of action)Recommendations concerning co
-administration with PREVYMISAntiviralsacyclovir‡(400 mg singledose)/ letermovir(480 mg daily)↔ acyclovir 
 AUC 1.02 (0.87, 1.2)Cmax 
0.82 (0.71, 0.93)No dose adjustment required.valacyclovir 
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↔ valacyclovir 
 No dose adjustment required.Herbal products 
 St. John’s wort(Hypericumperforatum )Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ letermovir(P-gp/UGT induction)St. John’s wort may decrease plasmaconcentrations of letermovir. Co-administration of  PREVYMIS and St.John’s wort is  contraindicated
.HIV medicinal productsef avirenz  Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ letermovir(P-gp/UGT induction)
↑ or ↓ ef avirenz(CYP2B6  inhibition orinduction)Ef avirenz  may decrease plasmaconcentrations of letermovir. Co-administration of  PREVYMIS andef avirenz  is not recommended.etravirine ,nevirapine, ritonavir,lopinavir 
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ letermovir(P-gp/UGT induction)These antivirals
 may decrease plasmaconcentrations of letermovir. Co-administration of  PREVYMIS withthese antivirals
 is not recommended.HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitorsatorvastatin‡ (20 mg single dose)/ letermovir (480
 mg daily)  ↑ atorvastatin 
 AUC 3.29 (2.84, 3.82)Cmax 
2.17 (1.76, 2.67)(CYP3A, OATP1B1/3inhibition)Statin -associated adverse events such asmyopathy should be closely monitored.The dose of atorvastatin should not exceed
20 mg daily when
 co-administered with 
 PREVYMIS
#.Although not studied, when PREVYMISis co -administered with cyclosporine
, themagnitude of  the increase in atorvastatinplasma concentrations is expected to begreater than with PREVYMIS
 alone. When PREVYMIS
 is co -adminis teredwith cyclosporine, atorvastatin iscontraindicated
.simvastatin,pitavastatin, rosuvastatin 
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↑ HMG -Co 
 A reductaseinhibitors(CYP3A, OATP1B1/3inhibition)Letermovir may substantially increaseplasma concentrations of  these statins.Concomitant use is not recommended with 
 PREVYMIS alone.When PREVYMIS is co
-administeredwith cyclosporine, use of these statins iscontraindicated.11Concomitantmedicinal product Effect on concentration
†Mean ratio (90 % confidenceinterval) for AUC, Cmax(likely mechanism of action)Recommendations concerning co
-administration with PREVYMISf luvastatin,pravastatin 
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↑ HMG -Co 
 A reductaseinhibitors(OATP1B1/3 and/or BCRPinhibition)Letermovir may increase statin plasmaconcentrations. When  PREVYMIS is co
-administeredwith these statins, a statin dose reductionmay be necessary
#. Statin -associatedadverse events such as myopathy shouldbe closely monitored. When PREVYMIS is co
-administeredwith cyclosporine, pravastatin is notrecommended while f or f luvastatin, a dosereduction may be necessary
#. Statin -associated adverse events such asmyopathy should be closely monitored.  Immunosuppressantscyclosporine(50 mg single dose)/letermovir (240
 mgdaily)↑ cyclosporine 
 AUC 1.66 (1.51, 1.82)Cmax 
1.08 (0.97, 1.19) (CYP3A inhibition)If  PREVYMIS
 is co -administered withcyclosporine, the dose of  PREVYMISshould be decreased to 240
 mg once daily(see sections 4.2 and 5.1).Frequent monitoring of  cyclosporinewhole blood concentrations should beperf ormed during treatment, whenchanging PREVYMIS
 administrationroute, and  at discontinuation of 
 PREVYMIS
 and the dose of  cyclosporineadjusted accordingly
#. cyclosporine(200 mg singledose)/ letermovir(240 mg daily)↑ letermovir 
 AUC 2.11 (1.97, 2.26)Cmax 
1.48 (1.33, 1.65)(OATP1B1/3 inhibition)mycophenolatemof etil(1 g single dose)/letermovir (480
 mgdaily)↔mycophenolic acid 
 AUC 1.08 (0.97, 1.20)Cmax 
0.96 (0.82, 1.12)
↔ letermovir 
 AUC 1.18 (1.04, 1.32)Cmax 1.11 (0. 92, 1.34)No dose adjustment required.12Concomitantmedicinal product Effect on concentration
†Mean ratio (90 % confidenceinterval) for AUC, Cmax(likely mechanism of action)Recommendations concerning co
-administration with PREVYMISsirolimus‡(2 mg single dose)/letermovir (480
 mgdaily)↑ sirolimus 
 AUC 3.40 (3.01, 3.85)Cmax 
2.76 (2.48, 3.06)(CYP3A inhibition)Interaction not studied.Expected:
↔ letermovir 
 Frequent monitoring of  sirolimus wholeblood concentrations should be perf ormedduring  treatment, when changing 
 PREVYMIS
 administration route, and atdiscontinuation of  PREVYMIS
 and thedose of  sirolimus adjusted accordingly
#.Frequent monitoring of  sirolimusconcentrations is recommended atinitiation or discontinuation ofcyclospori ne co -adminis tration with 
 PREVYMIS
. When PREVYMIS
 is co -administeredwith cyclosporine, also ref er to thesirolimus prescribing inf ormation f orspecif ic dosing recommendations for useof  sirolimus with cyclosporine.
 When PREVYMIS
 is co -administeredwith cyclosporine
, the magnitude of  theincrease in concentrations of  sirolimusmay be greater than with PREVYMISalone.tacrolimus(5 mg single dose)/letermovir (480
 mgdaily)↑ tacrolimus 
 AUC 2.42 (2.04, 2.88)Cmax 
1.57 (1.32, 1.86)(CYP3A inhibition)Frequent monitoring of  tacrolimus wholeblood concentrations should be perf ormedduring treatment, when changing 
 PREVYMIS
 administration route, and
 atdiscontinuation of  PREVYMIS
 and thedose of  tacrolimus adjusted accordingly#. tacrolimus(5 mg single dose)/letermovir (
80 mgtwice daily)
↔ letermovir 
 AUC 
1.02 (0.97, 1.07)Cmax 
0.92 (0.84, 1)Oral contraceptivesethinylestradiol (EE)(0.03 mg)/levonorgestrel(LNG)‡(0.15 mg) singledose/ letermovir(480 mg daily)↔ EEAUC 1.42 (1.32, 1.52)Cmax 
0.89 (0.83, 0.96)
↔ LNGAUC 1.36 (1.30, 1.43)Cmax 
0.95 (0.86, 1.04)No dose adjustment required.Other systemicallyacting oralcontraceptivesteroids 
 Risk of ↓ contraceptivesteroids 
 Letermovir may reduce plasmaconcentrations of other oral contraceptivesteroids thereby af f ecting their ef f icacy.For adequate contraceptive ef f ect to beensured with an oral contraceptive,products containing EE and LNG should bechosen.13Concomitantmedicinal product Effect on concentration
†Mean ratio (90 % confidenceinterval) for AUC, Cmax(likely mechanism of action)Recommendations concerning co
-administration with PREVYMISAntidiabetic medicinal productsrepaglinide 
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↑ or ↓ repaglinide (CYP2C8 induction, CYP2C8and OATP1B inhibition)Letermovir may increase or decrease theplasma concentrations of  repaglinide. (Thenet ef f ect is not known).Concomitant use is not recommended.When PREVYMIS is co
-administeredwith cyclosporine
, the plasmaconcentrations of repaglinide is expectedto increase due to the additional OATP1Binhibition by cyclosporine. Concomitantuse is not recommended
#. glybur ide Interaction not studied.Expected:
↑ glyburide(OATP1B1/3 inhibition 
 CYP3A inhibition, CYP2C9induction)Letermovir  may increase the plasmaconcentrations of glyburide. Frequent monitoring of  glucoseconcentrations is recommended the f irst
2 weeks af ter initiating or endingletermovir, as well as af ter changing routeof  administration of  letermovir. When PREVYMIS is co
-administeredwith cyclosporine,
 refer also to theglyburide prescribing inf ormation f orspecif ic dosing recommendations.14Concomitant medicinal product 
 Effect on concentration
† Mean ratio (90 % confidence interval) for AUC, Cmax(likely mechanism of action)Recommendations concerning co
-administration with PREVYMISAntiepileptic medicinal products (see also general text)carbamazepine,
 phenobarbital
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ letermovir(P-gp/UGT induction)Carbamazepine or phenobarbital maydecrease plasma concentrations ofletermovir.Co-administration of  PREVYMIS andcarbamazepine or phenobarbital is notrecommended.phenytoin Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ letermovir(P-gp/UGT induction)
↓ phenytoin(CYP2C9/19 induction)Phenytoin may decrease plasmaconcentrations of letermovir.Letermovir may decrease the plasmaconcentrations of phenytoin.Co-administration of  PREVYMIS andphenytoin is not recommended.Oral anticoagulantswarf arin  Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ warfarin(CYP2C9 induction)Letermovir  may decrease the plasmaconcentrations of warf arin.Frequent monitoring of  International 
 Normalised Ratio (INR) should beperf ormed when warf arin is co
-administered with
 PREVYMIS treatment
#.Monitoring is recommended the f irst
2 weeks af ter initiating or endingletermovir, as well as af ter changing routeof administration of  letermovir orimmunosuppressant. dabigatran  Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ dabigatran(intestinal P -gp induction)Letermovir may decrease the plasmaconcentrations of dabigatran and maydecrease ef f icacy of  dabigatran.Concomitant use of  dabigatran should beavoided due to the risk of  reduceddabigatran ef f icacy.When PREVYMIS is co
-administeredwith cyclosporine,
 dabigatran iscontraindicated.15Concomitantmedicinal product Effect on concentration
†Mean ratio (90 % confidenceinterval) for AUC, Cmax(likely mechanism of action)Recommendations concerning co
-administration with PREVYMISSedativesmidazolam(1 mg single doseintravenous )/letermovir (240
 mgonce daily PO)midazolam (
2 mgsingle dose PO) /letermovir (
240 mgonce daily PO) 
↑ midazolam  intravenous :AUC 1.47 (1.37, 1.58)Cmax 
1.05 (0.94, 1.17)PO:AUC 2.25 (2.04, 2.
48)Cmax 1.72 (1. 55, 1.92)(CYP3A inhibition)Close clinical monitoring f or respiratorydepression and/or prolonged sedationshould be exercised during co
-administration of  PREVYMIS
 withmidazolam. Dose adjustment ofmidazolam should be considered
#. Theincrease in midazolam plasmaconcentration may be greater when oralmidazolam is administered with letermovirat the clinical dose than with the dosestudied.Opioid agonists 
 Examples: alf entanil,f entanyl 
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↑ CYP3A metabolised opioids(CYP3A inhibition)Frequent monitoring for adverse reactionsrelated to these medicinal products isrecommended during co
-administration.Dose adjustment of  CYP3A metabolisedopioids may be needed
# (see section 4.4).Monitoring is also recommended
 ifchanging route of administration. When 
 PREVYMIS is co
-administered withcyclosporine
, the magnitude of theincrease in plasma concentrations of 
 CYP3A metabolised opioids may begreater. Close clinical monitoring f orrespiratory depression and/or prolongedsedation should be exercised during co
-administration of  PREVYMIS incombination with cyclosporine
 andalf entanil or f entanyl. Refer to therespective prescribing inf ormation (seesection 4.4).Anti-arrhythmic medicinal productsamiodarone  Interaction not studied.Expected:
↑ amiodarone(primarily CYP3A inhibitionand CYP2C8 inhibition orinduction)Letermovir  may increase the plasmaconcentrations of amiodarone.Frequent monitoring for adverse reactionsrelated to amiodarone is recommendedduring co-administration. Monitoring ofamiodarone concentrations should beperf ormed regularly when amiodarone isco-administered with PREVYMIS
#. quinidine  Interaction not studied.Expected:
↑ quinidine(CYP3A inhibition)Letermovir may increase the plasmaconcentrations of quinidine.Close clinical monitoring should beexercised during administration of 
 PREVYMIS with quinidine. Refer to therespective prescribing inf ormation
#.16Concomitantmedicinal product Effect on concentration
†Mean ratio (90 % confidenceinterval) for AUC, Cmax(likely mechanism of action)Recommendations concerning co
-administration with PREVYMISCardiovascular medicinal productsdigoxin‡ (0.5 mg single dose)/ letermovir (240
 mg twice daily)
 ↔ digoxin 
 AUC 
0.88 (0.80, 0.96)Cmax 
0.75 (0.63, 0.89)(P-gp induction)No dose adjustment required
.Proton pump inhibitorsomeprazole  
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓omeprazole(induction of  CYP2C19
)Interaction not studied.Expected:
↔ letermovir 
 Letermovir  may decrease the plasmaconcentrations of CYP2C19 substrates. Clinical monitoring and dose adjustmentmay be needed.pantoprazole 
 Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ pantoprazole(likely due to induction of 
 CYP2C19 )Interaction not studied.Expected:
↔ letermovir 
 Letermovir  may decrease the plasmaconcentrations of CYP2C19 substrates. Clinical monitoring and dose adjustmentmay be needed.Wakefulness
-promoting agentsmodaf inil  Interaction not studied.Expected:
↓ letermovir(P-gp/UGT induction)Modaf inil may decrease plasmaconcentrations of letermovir. Co-administration of  PREVYMIS andmodaf inil is not recommended.
*This table is not all inclusive.
† ↓ =decrease, ↑ =increase  
↔ =no clinically relevant change
‡ One-way interaction study assessing the ef f ect of  letermovir on the concomitant medicinalproduct.
§ These data are the ef f ect of  rif ampicin on letermovir 24 hours af ter f inal rif ampicin dose.
 
#Refer to the respective prescribing inf ormation.Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have
 only been perf ormed in adults.
