4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Results from a clinical drug-drug interaction study conducted with CE/BZA and from interaction studies with CE or bazedoxifene monotherapy are summarised below. 
 Conjugated oestrogens 
 In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that oestrogens are partially metabolised by cytochrome P450 enzymes, including CYP3A4. However, in a clinical drug-drug interaction study, repeat administration of 200 mg itraconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, had minimal impact on the pharmacokinetics of CE (as measured by estrone and equilin) and bazedoxifene when administered with a single dose of CE 0.45 mg/BZA 20 mg. 
 The metabolism of oestrogens may be increased by concomitant use of substances known to induce drug-metabolising enzymes, such as anticonvulsants (e.g., phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine) and anti-infectives (e.g., rifampicin, rifabutin, nevirapine, efavirenz). Ritonavir and nelfinavir, although known as strong inhibitors, by contrast exhibit inducing properties when used concomitantly with steroid hormones. Herbal preparations containing St John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) may induce the metabolism of oestrogens. Clinically, an increased metabolism of oestrogens may lead to decreased effect and changes in the uterine bleeding profile. 
 Bazedoxifene  
 The metabolism of bazedoxifene may be increased by concomitant use of substances known to induce uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs), such as rifampicin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, potentially leading to decreased systemic concentrations of 8 bazedoxifene. A reduction in bazedoxifene exposure may be associated with an increased risk of endometrial hyperplasia (see section 4.4).  
 Bazedoxifene undergoes little or no cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated metabolism. Bazedoxifene does not induce or inhibit the activities of major CYP isoenzymes, and is unlikely to interact with co-administered medicinal products via CYP-mediated metabolism.  
 There were no significant pharmacokinetic interactions between bazedoxifene and the following medicinal products: ibuprofen, atorvastatin and azithromycin or an antacid containing aluminium and magnesium hydroxide.  
 
