4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No interaction studies have been performed. 
 Paediatric population 
 There are limited data available relating to interactions with other medicinal products in the paediatric age group.  The following medicinal product interaction information is relevant to glycopyrronium.  
 Contraindications of concomitant use (see section 4.3)  
 Potassium chloride solid oral dose  Glycopyrronium may potentiate the risk of upper gastrointestinal injury associated with oral solid formulations of potassium chloride due to increased gastrointestinal transit time creating a high localized concentration of potassium ions. An association with upper gast rointestinal  bleeding and small bowel ulceration, stenosis, perforation, and obstruction has been observed.   Anticholinergics  Concomitant use of anticholinergics may increase the risk of anticholinergic side effects. Anticholinergics may delay the gastroi ntestinal absorption of other anticholinergics administered orally and also increase the risk of anticholinergic side effects.  
 7 Concomitant use to be considered with caution 
 Antispasmodics  Glycopyrronium may antagonize the pharmacologic effects of gastrointestinal prokinetic active substances such as domperidone and metoclopramide.  
 Topiramate  Glycopyrronium may potentiate the effects of oligohidrosis and hyperthermia associated with the use of topiramate, particularly in pediatric patients.  
 Sedating antihistamines  Sedating antihistamines may have additive anticholinergic effects. A reduction in anticholinergic and/or antihistamine dose may be necessary . 
 Neuroleptics/antipsychotics  The effects of active substances such as phenothiazines, clozapine and haloperidol may be potentiated. A reduction in anticholinergic and/or neuroleptic/antipsychotic dose may be necessary.  Skeletal muscle relaxants  Use of anticholinergics after administration of botulinum to xin may potentiate systemic anticholinergic effects. 
 Tricyclic antidepressants and MAOIs  Tricyclic antidepressants and MAOIs may have additive anticholinergic effects. A reduction in anticholinergic and/or tricyclic antidepressants and MAOIs dose may be necessary.  
 Opioids  Active substances such as pethidine and codeine may result in additive central nervous system and gastrointestinal adverse effects, and increase the risk of severe constipation or paralytic ileus and CNS depression. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, patients should be monitored for potentially excessive or prolonged CNS depression and constipation. 
 Corticosteroids  Steroid -induced glaucoma may develop with topical, inhaled, oral or intravenous, steroid administration. Concomitant use may result in increased intraocular pressure via an open - or a closed -angle mechanism. 
 Other  
 Medicinal products with anticholinergic properties (e.g. antihistamines, antidepressants) may cause cumulative parasympatholytic effects including dry mouth, urinary retention, constipation and confusion, and an increased risk of anticholinergic intoxication syndrome.  
 
