4.5  and 5.2) . 
 Grapefruit and pomegranate  Grapefruit  or pomegranate  juice may inhibit CYP3A4 and/or  P-gp and should be avoided during treatment with Nerlynx (see s ection s 4.2 and 4.5). 
 Concomitant treatment with moderate inducers of CYP3A4 and P -gp Concomitant treatment with moderate CYP3A4  and P -gp inducer s is not recommended as it may lead to a loss of neratinib  efficacy  (see section s 4.5 and 5.2).  
 Concomitant treatment with substrates of P -gp Patients who are treated concomitantly with therapeutic agents with a narrow therapeutic window  whose absorption  involves P -gp transporters  in the gastrointestinal tract should be carefully monitored  (see section s 4.5 and 5.2).  
 
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of other substances on neratinib  
 Neratinib is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and is a P -gp substrate.  
 CYP3A4 /P-gp inducers  A clinical study demonstrated that concomitant use  of strong CYP3A4/P -gp inducers significantly decreased neratinib exposure, therefore concurrent use of neratinib with strong CYP3A4/P -gp inducers is contraindicated (e.g. strong inducers: phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampic in, or herbal preparations containing St John’s Wort  (Hypericum perforatum) ). Concurrent use of neratinib with moderate CYP3A4/P -gp inducers  is not recommended as it may also lead to loss of efficacy (e.g. moderate inducers: bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine , phenobarbital, primidone, dexamethasone)  (see section s 4.3 and 5.2 ).
 
 CYP3A4 /P-gp inhibitors  A clinical study and model -based predictions have demon strated that concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP3A4/P -gp inhibitors significantly  increased neratinib systemic exposure, therefore, concomitant use of neratinib with strong and moderate CYP3A4 /P-gp inhibitors is not recommended  (e.g. strong inhibitors: atazanavir, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, lopinavir, ket oconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, troleandomycin, voriconazole, and cobicistat; moderate inhibitors: ciprofloxacin,   cyclosporin, diltiazem, fluconazole, erythromycin, fluvoxamine and verapamil) .  If the inhibitor can not be avoided, Nerlynx dose adjustment shoud be applied (see s ection s 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2) . 
 Grapefruit /pomegranate  or grapefruit /pomegranate  juice may also increase neratinib plasma concentrations and should be avoided (see s ection 4.2 and 4.4) . Proton pump inhibitors , H
2-receptor antagonists and antacids  The in -vitro  solubility of neratinib is p 
 H -dependent . Concomitant treatment with substances that increase gastric p 
 H may lower the absorption of neratinib, thus decreasing systemic exposure. Co -8 administration with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs)  is not recommended  (e.g. omeprazole or lansoprazole) (see sections  4.4 and 5.2).  
 Nerlynx should be taken at least 2 hours before or 10 hours after the intake of the H 2-receptor antagonist  (see section s 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2) . Separate dosing of Nerlynx and antacid s by at least 3 hours  (see section s 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2) . 
 Antidiarr hoeal loperamide  A clinical study has  demon strated that there were no clinically  significant differences in the exposure of subjects to neratinib with or without concurrent dosing with loperamide  (see section 
5.2).  
 Effects of neratinib on other substances  
 Hormonal contraceptives  It is currently unknown whether Nerlynx reduce s the effectiveness of systemically acting hormonal contraceptives . Therefore , women using systemically acting hormonal contraceptives should add a barrier method (see s ection  4.6). 
 P-glycoprotein efflux trans porters  In-vitro  studies  demonstrated that  neratinib is an inhibitor of P -glycoprotein (P -gp) efflux transporters. This has been confirmed by a clinical study using digoxin as probe substrate leading to an increase of 54 and 32% in Cmax and AUC, respectively . This might be clinically relevant for patients who are treated concomitantly with therapeutic agents with a narrow therapeutic window whose absorption involves P -gp transporters in the gastrointestinal tract (e.g. digoxin, colchicine, dabigatran, phenytoin, statins, cyclosporine, everolimus, sirolimus, tacrolimus) . They should be carefully monitored (see s ection s 4.4 and 5.2) . 
 Breast cancer resistance protein efflux transporter  Neratinib may inhibit breast cancer resistance protein  (BCRP ) at intestinal level as suggested by in vitro studies. A c linical stud y with BCRP substrates has  not been conducted. As co -administration of neratinib with BCRP substrates may lead to an increase of their exposure, patients who are treated with BCRP substrates (e.g., rosuvastatin, sulfasalazine and irinotecan ) should be monitored carefully (see section  5.2). 
  
