4.5  Interaction with other medicinal p roducts and other forms of i nteraction  
 Medicinal products associated  with bleeding risk : There is  an increased risk of bleed ing due to the potential additive effect. The co ncomitant administration of medic inal product s associated with bleeding risk should  be undertaken with caution (see section  4.4). 
 Oral anticoagulants : the concomitant administratio n of clopidogrel with oral anticoagulants  is not recommended since it may i ncrease the intensity of bleedings (see section 4.4). Although the administration o f clopidogrel 75 mg/day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S -warfarin or International Normali sed Ratio (INR) in patients  receiving long -term warfarin therapy, co -admini stration of cl opidogrel with warfarin increas es the risk of bleeding because of ind ependent effects on hemostasis.  
 Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors:  clopidogrel should be used with  caution in patients who re ceive concomitant glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibito rs (see section  4.4). 
 Acetylsalicylic acid ( ASA):  ASA did not modify the clopidogr el-mediated inhibition of AD P-induced platelet aggregation, but clopid ogrel potentiated the effect  of ASA on collagen -induced  platelet aggregation. However, concomitant admi nistra tion of 500 mg of ASA twice a day for o ne day did not significantly increase the prolongation of bleeding time induced by clopidogrel intake. A pharmacodynamic interaction bet ween clopidogrel and acetyl salicylic acid is possible, leading to increased  risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use  should be undertaken with caution (se e section  4.4). However, clo pidogrel and ASA have been administered to gether for up to one year (s ee section  5.1). 
 7 Heparin:  in a clinical study conducted in h ealthy subject s, clopidogrel did not necessitate modificati on of the heparin dose or alter the ef fect of heparin on coagulation. Co -administration of heparin had no effect on the inhibition of pl atelet aggregation induced by clopidogrel. A pharmacodynamic interaction be tween clopidogrel and heparin is possible, le ading to increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, concomitant use sh ould be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4). 
 Thrombolytics:  the safety of the concomitant administration of clopidog rel, fibrin or non -fibrin specific thrombolytic agents and heparins  was assessed in patients with acute m yocardial infarction. The incidence of clinically significant bleeding  was similar to that observe d when thrombolytic agents and heparin are co -adminis tered with ASA (see section  4.8). 
 NSAIDs:  in a clinical study cond ucted in healthy volunteers, the conco mitant administration of clopidogrel and naproxen increased occult gas trointestinal blood loss. Ho wever, due to the lack of interaction studies  with other NSAIDs it is prese ntly unclear whether there is an increased ri sk of gastrointestinal bleeding with a ll NSAIDs. Consequently, NSAIDs including Cox -2 inhibitors and clopido grel should be co -administer ed with caution (see sectio n 4.4). 
 SSRIs: since SSRIs affect platelet acti vation and increase the risk of bleeding, the  concomitant administration of SSRIs w ith clopidogrel should be un dertaken with caution.  
 Other concomitant therapy:   
 Inducers of CYP2C 19  Since clopidogrel is me tabolised to its active metabolite partly by CYP 2C19, use of medicinal products that induce t he activity of this enzyme would be ex pected to result in increased drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel.   
 Rifampicin st rongly induces CYP2C19, res ulting in both an increased level of clopidogrel  active metabolite and platelet inhibition, w hich in particular might potentiate th e risk of bleeding. As a precaution, concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers shou ld be discoura ged (see section  4.4).  
 Inhibitors of CYP2C19  Since clopidogrel is metabol ised to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C 19, use of medicinal products that inh ibit the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in reduced drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel. The clinic al relevance of this interaction is un certain. As a precaution concomitant use of strong or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors should be discouraged (see sections  4.4 and 5.2).  
 Medicinal products that are strong or moderate  CYP2C19 inhibitors  include , for exampl e, omeprazole and esomeprazole, fluvox amine, fluoxetine, moclobemide, voriconazole,  fluconazole, ticlopidine, carbamazepi ne, and efavirenz . 
 Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPI):  Omeprazole 80  mg once daily administered either  at the same time as  clopid ogrel  or with 12  hours  between the  administratio ns of the two drugs decreased the  exposure of the active metabolite by 4 5 % (loadin g dose) and 40 % (maintenanc e dose ). The decrease was associated with a 39  % (loading dose) and 21  % (maintenance dose ) reduc tion of  inhibition of platelet aggregation. Esom eprazole is expected to give a similar interactio n with clopidogrel.  
 Inconsistent data on  the clinical implications of this pharmacokinetic (PK) /pharmacodynamic (PD)  interaction in ter ms of major card iovascu lar events  have been reported from both observat ional and clinical studies. As a precaution, conc omitant use of omeprazole or esome prazole should be discourage d (see section  4.4).  
 Less pronounced reductions of metabolite exposure h as been observe d with p antoprazol e or lansoprazole.  8 The plasma concentr ations of the active metabolite was 20  % reduced ( loading dose) and 14  % reduced (m aintenanc e dose) during concomitant treatment with pantoprazole 80  mg once daily. This was associated wi th a reducti on of the  mean inhi bition  of platelet aggregation by 15  % and 11  %, respectively. These results indicate that clopidogrel can be administere d with pant oprazole . 
 There is no evidence that other medicinal products that reduce stomach acid such as H2 blocker s  or antacids inte rfere wi th antiplatelet activity of cl opidogrel.  
 Booste d anti -retroviral therapy (ART):  HIV patients treated with booste d anti -retroviral therapies (ART) are at high -risk of vascular events . 
 A significantly reduced platelet inhibition has been shown in H IV patie nts treated with riton avir-or cobicistat -boosted  ART. Although the clinical relevan ce of these findings is uncert ain, there have been spontan eous reports of HIV -infected patients treated with ritonavir boosted ART, who  have exper ienced re -occlusive  events after de -obstruction o r have s uffered thrombotic  events under a clopidogrel loading  treatment schedule. Average p latelet inh ibition can be decreased with concomitant use of clopidogrel and ritonavir. Therefore, concomi tant use of  clopidog rel with A RT boost ed therapies should be  discour aged.  
 Other medicinal products:  A number of other cl inical studies have been condu cted with c lopidogrel and ot her concomitant medicinal products to investigate the potential for pharmacod ynamic and pharmacok inetic int eraction s. No clinically significant p harmacodynamic interactions were observed when clopid ogrel was co -administered with  atenolol, nifedipine, or both atenolol and nifedipine.  Furthermore, the pharmacodynamic activity of clop idogrel was  not sign ificantly influenc ed by the co -administration of  phenobarbital or oestrogen.  
 The pharmacokinetics of  digoxin or theophylline were not modified  by the co -admin istration of clopidogrel. Antacids did not modify the extent of clopidogrel a bsorption.  
 Data fro m the CAPRI E study indicate that phenytoin and t olbutamide which are metabolised by CYP2C9  can be saf ely co -administered with clopi dogrel.  
 CYP2C8 substrate medicinal products: Clopidogrel has been shown to increase repaglinide exposur e in health y volunte ers. In vit ro studi es have shown the increase in  repaglinide exposure is due to inhibition of CYP2C8 by the glucuronide metabolite of clopidogr el. Due to the r isk of increased plasma concentrations, concomitant administration of clopido grel and dr ugs prima rily cleare d by CYP 2C8 metabolism (e.g., repagli nide, paclitaxel) should be undertaken with caution ( see section  4.4). 
 Apart from the specific  medicinal product  interaction information described above, interaction studies with clopidog rel and some  medicin al products commonl y administered in patients wi th atherothrombotic d isease h ave not been performed. However, patients entered into  clinical tr ials with clopid ogrel received a variety of concomitant medicinal products  including diuretic s, beta blockers, ACEI, calcium antagon ists, cholesterol lowering ag ents, coronary vasodi lators, antidiabetic agents (including insulin), antiepileptic  agents and GPIIb/IIIa antagonists without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions.  
 As w ith other oral P2Y12  inhibitors, co -administration of op ioid agonist s has the potential t o delay and reduce the absorptio n of clopidogrel presumably be cause of slo wed gastric empt ying. The clinical relevance is unknown. Consider the use of a parenteral ant iplatelet agent in a cute coronary syndr ome patients requ iring co -administration of morphi ne or ot her opioid agonists.  
 Rosuvastatin: Clopidogrel has be en shown to increase rosuvastatin exposure in patients by 2 -fold (AUC) and 1.3 -fold (C max) after administration of a 300  mg c lopidogrel dose, and by 1.4 -fold (AUC) without e ffect on Cmax after  repeated administration of a 75  mg clopidogrel dose.  
 
