4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 As a cholinesterase inhibitor, rivastigmine may exaggerate the effects of succinylcholine -type muscle relaxants during anaesthesia.  Caution is recommended  when selecting an aesthetic agents. Possible dose adjustments or temporarily stopping treatment can be cons idered if needed.  
 In view of its pharmacodynamic effects  and possible additive effects , rivastigmine should not be given concomitantly with other cholinomimetic substance s. Rivastigmine  might interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medic inal produc ts (e.g oxybutynin, tolterodine) . 
 Additive effects leading to bradycardia (which may result in syncope) have been reported with the combined use of various beta -blockers (including atenolol) and rivastigmine. Cardiovascular beta - blockers are expected to be associated with the greatest risk, but reports have also been received in patients using other beta -blockers. Therefore , caution should be exercised when rivastigmine is combined with beta -blockers and also  other bradycardia ag ents (e.g.class III antiarrhythmic agents, calcium channel antagonists, digitalis glycoside, pilocarpin).  
 Since bradycardia constitutes a risk factor in the occurrence of torsades de pointes, the combination of rivastigmine  with QT prolongation - or torsades de pointes -inducing medicinal products such as antipsychotics i.e. some phenothiazines (chlorpromazine, levomepromazine) , benzamides (sulpiride, sultopride, amisulpride, tiapride, veralipride), pimozide, haloperidol, droperidol, cisapride, citalopr am, diphemanil, erythromycin IV, halofantrin, mizolastin, methadone, pentamidine  and moxifloxacine  should be observed with caution and c linical monitoring  (ECG) may also be required.  
 No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between rivastigmine and dig oxin, warfarin, diazepam or fluoxetine in studies in healthy volunteers.  The increase in prothrombin time induced by warfarin is not affected by administration of rivastigmine. No untoward effects on cardiac conduction were observed following concomitant a dministration of digoxin and rivastigmine.  
 According to its metabolism, metabolic interactions with other medicinal products appear unlikely, although rivastigmine may inhibit the butyrylcholinesterase mediated metabolism of other substance s. 
 
  7 