4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Effect of other medicinal products on roxadustat  Phosphate binders and other products containing multivalent cations  Co-administration of roxadustat with phosphate binders sevelamer carbonate or calcium acetate in healthy subjects decreased roxadustat AUC by 67% and 46% and C max by 66% and 52%, respectively . Roxadustat may form a chelate with multivalent cations such as in phosphate binders or other products  8 containing calcium, iron, magnesium or aluminium . Staggered administration of phosphate binders (at least 1 hour apart) had no clinically significant effe ct on roxadustat exposure in patients with CKD. Roxadustat should be taken at least 1 hour after administration of phosphate binders or other medicinal products or supplements containing multivalent cations (see section 4.2). This restriction does not apply to lanthanum carbonate, as the co -administration of roxadustat with lanthanum carbonate did not result in a clinically meaningful change in the plasma exposure of roxadustat.  
 Modifiers of CYP2C8 or UGT1A9 activity  Roxadustat is a substrate of CYP2C8 and  UGT1A9. Co -administration of roxadustat with gemfibrozil (CYP2C8 and OATP1B1inhibitor) or probenecid (UGT and OAT1/OAT3 inhibitor) in healthy subjects increased roxadustat AUC by 2.3 -fold and C max by 1.4 -fold. Monitor Hb levels when initiating or disconti nuing concomitant treatment with gemfibrozil, probenecid, other strong inhibitors or inducers of CYP2C8 or other strong inhibitors of UGT1A9. Adjust the dose of roxadustat following dose adjustment rules (see Table 2) based on Hb monitoring.  
 Effects of r oxadustat on other medicinal products  OATP1B1 or BCRP Substrates  Roxadustat is an inhibitor of BCRP and OATP1B1. These transporters play an important role in the intestinal and hepatic uptake and efflux of statins. Co -administration of 200  mg of roxadusta t with simvastatin in healthy subjects increased the AUC and C max of simvastatin 1.8 - and 1.9 -fold, respectively, and the AUC and C max of simvastatin acid (the active metabolite of simvastatin) 1.9 - and 
2.8-fold, respectively. The concentrations of simvast atin and simvastatin acid also increased when simvastatin was administered 2 hours before or 4 or 10  hours after roxadustat.  Co-administration of 
200 mg of roxadustat with rosuvastatin increased the AUC and C max of rosuvastatin 2.9 - and 4.5 -fold, respectiv ely. Co -administration of 200  mg of roxadustat with atorvastatin increased the AUC and C max of atorvastatin 2.0 - and 1.3 -fold, respectively.  
 Interactions are also expected with other statins. When co -administered with roxadustat, consider this interaction, monitor for adverse reactions associated with statins and for the need of statin dose reduction. Refer to statin prescribing information when deciding on the appropriate statin dose for individual pa tients.  
 Roxadustat may increase the plasma exposure of other medicinal products that are substrates of BCRP or OATP1B1. Monitor for possible adverse reactions of co -administered medicinal products and adjust dose accordingly.  
 Roxadustat and ESAs  It is n ot recommended to combine administration of roxadustat and ESAs as the combination has not been studied.  
 
