4.5 Interaction with other medicinal produc ts and other forms of interaction 
 Effect of zonisamide on cytochrome P450  enzymes  In vitro studies using human liver microsomes show no or little (< 25%) inhibition of cytochrome P450 isozymes 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2 D6, 2E1 or 3A4 at zonisamide levels approximately two-fold or greater than clinically relevant unbound  serum conce ntrations. Therefore, zonisamide is not expe cted to affect the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products via cytochrome P45 0-mediated mechan isms, as demonstrated for carbamazepine, phenytoin, ethinylestradiol and desipramine in vivo. 
 Potential for zonisamide to affect other medicinal products Anti-epileptic medicinal products In epileptic patients, steady-state dosing with zonisamide resulted in no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic effects on carbamazepine, lamotrigine, phen ytoin, or sodium valproate. 
 Oral contraceptives In clinical studies in healthy subjects, steady-state dosing with zonisamide did not affect serum conce ntrations of ethinylestradiol or norethisterone in a combined o ral contraceptive. 
 Carbon ic anhydrase inhibitors Zonisamide should be used with caution in adult patients treated conco mitantly with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate and acetazolamide , as there are insufficient data to rule out a 10 
 possible pharmacod ynamic interaction (see section 4.4). 
 Zonisamide should not be used as co -medication in paediatric patients with other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate and acetazolamide (see section 4.4: Paediatric population).  
 P-gp substrate An in vitro study shows  that zonisamide is a weak inhibitor of P-gp (MDR1) with an IC50 of 
267 µmol/l and there is the theoretical potential for zonisamide to affect the pharmacokinetics of substances which are P-gp substrates. Caution is advised when starting or stopping zonisamide treatment or changing the zonisamide dose in patients who are also receiving medicinal products which are P-gp sub strates (e.g. digoxin, quinidine). 
 Potential medicinal product interactions affecting zonisamide  In clinical studies co-administration of lamotrigine had  no app arent effect on zonisamide pharmacokinetics. The combination of zonisamide with other medicinal products that may lead to urolithiasis may enhance  the risk of developing kidney  stones; therefore the concomitant administration of such medicinal products should be avoided. 
 Zonisamide is metabolised partly by CYP3A4 (reductive cleavage), and  also by N-acetyl-transferases and co njugation with glucuronic acid; therefore, substances that can induce  or inhibit these enzymes may affect the pharmacokinetics of zonisamide: 
 
- Enzyme induc tion: Exposure to zonisamide is lower in epileptic patients receiving CYP3A4-induc ing agents such as  phen ytoin, carbamazepine, and  pheno barbitone. These effects are unlikely to be of clinical significance when zonisamide is added to existing therapy; however, chan ges in zonisamide concen trations may occur  if concomitant CYP3A4-induc ing anti-epileptic or other medicinal products are withdrawn, dose  adjusted or introduced, an adjustment of the zonisamide dose may be required. Rifampicin is a potent CYP3A4 inducer. If co-administration is necessary, the patient should be closely monitored and  the dose of zonisamide and o ther CYP3A4 sub strates adjusted as needed.  
 
- CYP3A4 inhibition: Based upon  clinical data, known specific and  non-specific CYP3A4 inhibitors appear to have no clinically relevant effect on zonisamide ph armacokinetic exposure parameters. Steady-state dosing of either ketoconazole (400 mg/day) or cimetidine (1200  mg/day) had no clinically relevant effects on the single-dose pharmacokinetics of zonisamide given to healthy subjects. Therefore, modification of zonisamide dosing shou ld not be ne cessary when c o-administered w ith known CYP3A4 inhibitors. 
 Paediatric population  Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
