4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 No interaction studies have been performed. H owever, such studies have been conducted with the individual active substances, i.e.linagliptin and metformin. Co-administration of multiple doses of linagliptin and metformin did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of either linagliptin or metformin in healthy volunteers and patients.Linagliptin 
 Invitro assessment of interactions 
 Linagliptin is a weak competitive and a weak to moderate mechanism -based inhibitor of CYP isozyme CYP3A4, but does not inhibit other CYP isozymes. It is not an inducer of CYP isozymes.Linagliptin is a P -glycoprotein substrate, and inhibits P -glycoprotein mediated transport of digoxin with low potency. Based on these results and invivo drug interaction studies, linagliptin is considered unlikely to cause interactions with other P -gp substrates.Invivo assessment of interactions 
 Effects of other medicinal products on linagliptin 
 Clinical data described below suggest that the risk for clinically meaningful interactions by coadministered medicinal products is low.Metformin :Co-administration of multiple three -times -daily doses of 850 mg metformin hydrochloride with 10 mg linagliptin once daily did not clinical meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of linagliptin in healthy subjects .Sulphonylureas :The steady -state pharmacokinetics of 5 mg lin agliptin were not changed by concomitant administration of a single 1.75 mg dose glibenclamide (glyburide) .Ritonavir :Co-administration of a single 5 mg oral dose of linagliptin and multiple 200 mg oral doses of ritonavir , a potent inhibitor of P -glycoprotein and CYP3A4, increased the AUC and C maxof linagliptin approximately twofold and threefold, respectively. The unbound concentrations, which are usually less than 1% at the therapeutic dose of linagliptin, were increased 4 -5-fold after co -admini stration with ritonavir. Simulations of steady -state plasma concentrations of linagliptin with and without ritonavir indicated that the increase in exposure will not be associated with an increased accumulation. These changes in linagliptin pharmacokinetic s were not considered to be clinically relevant. Therefore, clinically relevant interactions would not be expected with other P -glycoprotein/CYP3A4 inhibitors.Rifampicin :Multiple co -administration of 5mg linagliptin with rifampicin, a potent inductor of P-glycoprotein and CYP3A4, resulted in a 39.6% and 43.8% decreased linagliptin steady -state AUC and C maxrespectively, and about 30% decreased DPP -4 inhibition at trough. Thus full efficacy of linagliptin in combination with strong P -gp inducers might n ot be achieved , particularly if these are administered long-term. Co-administration with other potent inducers of P -glycoprotein and CYP3A4, such as carbamazepine, phenobarbital and phenytoin has not been studied.Effects of linagliptin on other medicinal products 
 In clinical studies, as described below, linagliptin had no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin, glyburide, simvastatin, warfarin, digoxin or oral contraceptives providing invivo evidence of a low propensity for causi ng interactions with substrates of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C8, P -glycoprotein, and organic cationic transporter (OCT).7Metformin :Co-administration of multiple daily doses of 10 mg linagliptin with 850 mg metformin hydrochloride , an OCT substrate, had no rele vant effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin in healthy subjects . Therefore, linagliptin is not an inhibitor of OCT -mediated transport.Sulphonylureas :Co-administration of multiple oral doses of 5 mg linagliptin and a single oral dose of 1.75 mg glibenclamide (glyburide) resulted in clinically not relevant reduction of 14% of both AUC and C maxof glibenclamide. Because glibenclamide is primarily metaboli sed by CYP2C9, these data also support the conclusion that linagliptin is not a CYP2C9 inhibitor. Clinically meaningful interactions would not be expected with other sul phonylureas (e.g., glipizide, tolbutamide, and glimepiride) which, like glibenclamide, a re primarily eliminated by CYP2C9.Digoxin :Co-administration of multiple daily doses of 5 mg linagliptin with multiple doses of 0.25 mg digoxin had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin in healthy subjects . Therefore, linagliptin is not an inhibitor of P -glycoprotein -mediated transport invivo.Warfarin :Multiple daily doses of 5 mg linagliptin did not alter the pharmacokinetics of S( -) or R(+) warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, administered in a single dose.Simvastatin :Multiple daily doses of linagliptin had a minimal effect on the steady -state pharmacokinetics of simvastatin, a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate, in healthy subjects . Following administration of a supratherapeutic dose of 10 mg linagliptin concomitantly with 40 mg of simvastatin dai ly for 6 days, the plasma AUC of simvastatin was increased by 34%, and the plasma C maxby 10%.Oral contraceptives :Co-administration with 5 mg linagliptin did not alter the steady -state pharmacokinetics of levonorgestrel or ethinylestradiol.Metformin 
 Combination requiring precautions for use 
 Glucocorticoids (given by systemic and local routes) ,beta-2-agonists, and diuretics have intrinsic hyperglycaemic activity. The patient should be informed and more frequent blood glucose monitoring performed, espe cially at the beginning of treatment with such medicinal products. If necessary, the dose of the anti -hyperglycaemic medicinal product should be adjusted during therapy with the other medicinal product and on its discontinuation.Some medicinal products can adversely affect renal function which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo -oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists and diuretics, especially loop diuretics. When sta rting or using such products in combination with metformin, close monitoring of renal function is necessary.Organic cation transporters (OCT)Metformin is a substrate of both transporters OCT1 and OCT2. Co -administration of metformin with
 Inhibitors of O CT1 (such as verapamil) may reduce efficacy of metformin.
 Inducers of OCT1 (such as rifampicin) may increase gastrointestinal absorption and efficacy of metformin.
 Inhibitors of OCT2 (such as cimetidine, dolutegravir, ranolazine, trimethoprime, vandetanib,isavuconazole) may decrease the renal elimination of metformin and thus lead to an increase in metformin plasma concentration.
 Inhibitors of both OCT1 and OCT2 (such as crizotinib, olaparib) may alter efficacy and renal elimination of metformin.8Caution is therefore advised, especially in patients with renal impairment, when these drugs are coadministered with metformin, as metformin plasma concentration may increase. If needed, dose adjustment of metformin may be considered as OCT inhibitors/inducers may alter the efficacy of metformin.Concomitant use not recommended 
 Alcohol 
 Alcohol intoxication is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidosis, particularly in cases of fasting, malnutrition or hepatic impairment.Iodinated contrast agents 
 Jentadueto must be discontinued prior to or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarted until at least 48 hours after, provided that renal function has been re -evaluated and found to be stable, seesections 4.2 and 4.4.
