4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Tasigna may be given in combination with haematopoietic growth factors such as erythropoietin or granulocyte colony -stimulating  factor (G -CSF) if clinically indicated. It may be give n with hydroxyurea or anagrelide if clinically indicated.  
 Nilotinib is mainly metabolised in the liver with CYP3A4 expected to be the main contributor to the oxidative metabolism. Nilotinib is also a substrate for the multi -drug efflux pump, P -glycoprotei n (P-gp). Therefore, absorption and subsequent elimination of systemically absorbed nilotinib may be influenced by substances that affect CYP3A4 and/or P -gp. 
 11 Substances that may increase nilotinib serum concentrations  
 Concomitant administration of nilotinib with imatinib (a substrate and moderator of P -gp and CYP3A4), had a slight inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 and/or P -gp. The AUC of imatinib was increased by 18% to 39%, and the AUC of nilotinib was increased by 18% to 40%. These cha nges are unlikely to be clinically important.  
 The exposure to nilotinib in healthy subjects was increased 3 -fold when co -administered with the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole. Concomitant treatment with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, including ketoconazol e, itraconazole, voriconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin, and telithromycin, should therefore be  avoided (see section  4.4). Increased exposure to nilotinib might also be expected with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors. Alternative concomitant medicinal products w ith no or minimal CYP3A4 inhibition should be considered.  
 Substances that may decrease nilotinib serum concentrations  
 Rifampicin, a potent CYP3A4 inducer, decreases nilotinib C max by 64% and reduces nilotinib AUC by 
80%. Rifampicin and nilotinib should n ot be used concomitantly.  
 The concomitant administration of other medicinal products that induce CYP3A4 (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital and St. John’s Wort) is likewise likely to reduce exposure to nilotinib to a clinically relevant extent. In patients for whom CYP3A4 inducers are indicated, alternative agents with less enzyme induction potential should be selected.  
 Nilotinib has p 
 H dependent solubility, with lower solubility at higher p 
 H. In healthy subjects receiving esomeprazole at 40  mg once daily for 5  days, gastric p 
 H was markedly increased, but nilotinib absorption was only decreased modestly (27% decrease in C max and 34% decrease in AUC 0-∞). Nilotinib may be used concurrently with esomeprazole or other proton pump inhibitors as needed . 
 In a study in healthy subjects, no significant change in nilotinib pharmacokinetics was observed when a single 400  mg dose of nilotinib  was administered 10  hours after and 2  hours before famotidine. Therefore, when the concurrent use of a H2 blocker is necessary, it may be administered approximately 10  hours before and approximately 2  hours after the dose of Tasigna.  
 In the same study as  above, administration of an antacid (aluminium hydroxide/magnesium hydroxide/simethicone) 2  hours before or after a single 400  mg dose of nilotinib  also did not alter nilotinib pharmacokinetics. Therefore, if necessary, an antacid may be administered appr oximately 
2 hours before or approximately 2  hours after the dose of Tasigna.  
 Substances that may have their systemic concentration altered by nilotinib  
 In vitro , nilotinib is a relatively strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2D6 and UGT1A1, wit h Ki value being lowest for CYP2C9 (Ki=0.13  micro 
 M).  
 A single -dose drug-drug interaction study in healthy volunteers with 25  mg warfarin, a sensitive CYP2C9 substrate, and 800  mg nilotinib did not result in any changes in warfarin pharmacokinetic paramete rs or warfarin pharmacodynamics measured as prothrombin time (PT) and international normalised ratio (INR). There are no steady -state data. This study suggests that a clinically meaningful drug-drug interaction between nilotinib and warfarin is less likely up to a dose of 25  mg of warfarin. Due to lack of steady -state data, control of warfarin pharmacodynamic markers (INR or PT) following initiation of nilotinib therapy (at least during the first 2  weeks) is recommended.  
 12 In CML patients, nilotinib administered at 400  mg twice daily for 12  days increased the systemic exposure (AUC and C max) of oral midazolam (a substrate of CYP3A4) 2.6 -fold and 2.0 -fold, respectively. Nilotinib is a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. As a result, the systemic exposure of other medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g. certain HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors) may be increased when co -administered with nilotinib. A ppropriate monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary for medicinal products  that are CYP3A4 substrates and have a narrow therapeutic index (including but not limited to alfentanil, cyclosporine, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, fentanyl, sirolimus and tacrolimus) when co -administered with nilotinib.  
 The combination of nilotinib  with those  statins  that are mainly  eliminated by CYP3A4, may increase the potential for statin -induced myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis.  
 Anti-arrhythmic medicinal products and other substances that may prolong the QT interval  
 Nilotinib should be used with caution in patients who have or may develop prolongation of the QT interval, including those patients taking anti -arrhythmic medicinal products such as amiodarone , disopyramide, procainamide, quinidine and sotalol or other medicinal products that may lead to QT prolongation such as chloroquine, halofantrine, clarithromycin, haloperidol, methadon e and moxifloxacin (see section  4.4). 
 Food interactions  
 The absorptio n and bioavailability of nilotinib  are increased if it is taken with food, resulting in a higher se rum concentration (see sections  4.2, 4.4 and 5.2). Grapefruit juice and other foods that are known to inhibit CYP3A4 should be avoided.  
 Paediatric populatio n 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
