4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with Segluromet
 have not been performed; however, suchstudies have been conducted with ertugliflozin and metformin, the individual active substances of 
 Segluromet
.Ertugliflozin 
 Pharmacodynamic interactions 
 Diuretics 
 Ertugliflozin may add to the diuretic ef fect of diuretics and may increase the risk of dehydration andhypotension (see section
 4.4).Insulin and insulin secretagogues 
 Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulphonylureas, cause hypoglycaemia. Ertugliflozin mayincrease the risk of hypoglycaemia when used in combination with insulin and/or an insulinsecretagogue. Theref ore, a lower dose of insulin or an insulin secretagogue may be required to reducethe risk of hypoglycaemia when used in combination with Segluromet
 (see sections
 
4.2, 4.4, and 4.8). Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 Effects of other medicinal products
 on the pharmacokinetics of ertugliflozin 
 Metabolism by UGT1A9 and UGT2B7 is the primary clearance mechanism for ertuglif lozin. Interaction studies conducted in healthy subjects, using a single dose design, suggest that thepharmacokinetics of ertugliflozin are not altered by sitagliptin, metformin, glimepiride, or simvastatin.Multiple -dose administration of rif ampicin (a uridine 5’ -diphospho -glucuronosyltransf erase [UGT ]and cytochrome P450 [CYP ] inducer) decreases ertuglif lozin area under the
 concentration
-time curve(AUC ) and maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) by 39% and 15%, respectively. This decrease inexposure is not considered clinically relevant and therefore, no dose adjustment is recommended. Aclinically relevant effect with other inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital) is notexpecte d. The impact of UGT inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of ertuglif lozin has not been studied clinically,but potential increase in ertuglif lozin exposure due to UGT inhibition is not considered to be clinicallyrelevant.  Effects of ertugliflozin on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products 
 Interaction studies conducted in healthy volunteers suggest that ertuglif lozin had no clinically relevanteff ect on the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin, metformin
, and glimepiride.Coadministration of simvastatin with ertuglif lozin resulted in a 24% and 19% increase in AUC and 
 Cmax of simvastatin, respectively, and 30% and 1
6
% increase in AUC and Cmax of simvastatin acid,respectively. The mechanism for the small increases in simvastatin and simvastatin acid is unknownand is not perpetrated through organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATP ) inhibition byertuglif lozin. These increases are
 not considered to be clinically meaningful.10Metf ormin 
 Concomitant use is not recommended 
 Alcohol 
 Alcohol intoxication is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidosis, particularly in cases offasting, malnutrition or hepatic impairment.Iodinated contrast agents 
 Segluromet must be discontinued prior to or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarteduntil at least 48
 hours after, provided that renal f unction has been re
-evaluated and found to be stable(see sections
 
4.2 and 4.4).Combinations requiring precautions for use 
 Some  medicinal products can adversely af fect renal f unction, which may increase the risk of lacticacidosis, e.g.
, NSAIDs, including selective cyclo
-oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors,angiotensin -converting enzyme (ACE ) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists and diuretics,especially loop diuretics. When starting or using such products in combination with metformin, closemonitoring of renal function is necessary.Organic cation transporters (OCT)
 Metformin is a substrate of both transporters OCT1 and OCT2.Coadministration of metformin with 
 Inhibitors of OCT1 (such as verapamil) may reduce ef ficacy of metformin. 
 Inducers of OCT1 (such as rif ampicin) may increase gastrointestinal absorption and ef ficacy ofmetformin.
 Inhibitors of OCT2 (such as cimetidine, dolutegravir, ranolazine, trimethoprim, vandetanib,isavuconazole) may decrease the renal elimination of metformin and thus lead to an increase inmetformin plasma concentration.
 Inhibitors of both OCT1 and OCT2 (such as crizotinib, olaparib) may alter eff icacy and renalelimination of metformin.Caution is therefore advised, especially in patients with renal impairment, when these medicinalproduct s are coadministered
 with metf ormin, as metformin plasma concentration may increase. Ifneeded, dose adjustment of metformin may be considered as OCT inhibitors/inducers may alter theeff icacy of metformin.Glucocorticoids (given by systemic and local administration
), beta 2 agonists, and diuretics haveintrinsic hyperglycaemic activity. The patient should be informed and more f requent blood glucosemonitoring performed, especially at the beginning of treatment with such medicinal products. Ifnecessary, the dose of  the anti
-hyperglycaemic medicinal product should be adjusted during therapywith the other medicinal product and on its discontinuation.
