4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Palbociclib is primarily metabolised by CYP3A and sulphotransferase  (SULT) enzyme SULT2A1. In vivo , palbociclib is a weak, time -dependent inhibitor of CYP3A. 
 Effects of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of  palbociclib  
 Effect of CYP3A inhibitors  Coadministration of multiple 200  mg doses of itraconazole with a single 125 mg palbociclib  dose increased palbociclib total exposure (AUC inf) and the peak concentration (Cmax) by approximately 87% and 34%, respectively, relative to a single 125 mg palbociclib dose given alone.  
 The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors including, but not limited to: clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir /ritonavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, posaconazole, saquinavir, telaprevir, telithromycin, voriconazole , and grapefruit or grapefruit juice, should be avoided (see section s 4.2 and 4.4). 
 No dose adjustments are needed for mild and moderate CYP3A inhibitors.  
 Effect of CYP3A inducers  Coadministration of multiple 600  mg doses of rifampin with a single 125 mg palbociclib dose decreased palbociclib AUCinf and C max by 85% and 70%, respectively, relative to a single 125 mg palbociclib dose given alone. 
 The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers including, but not limited to: carbamazepine, enzalutamide,  phenytoin, rifampin, and St. John’s Wort should be avoided (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
 Coadministration of multiple 400 mg daily doses of modafinil, a moderate CYP3A inducer, with a single 125  mg IBRANCE dose decreased palbociclib AUCinf and C max by 32% and 11%, respectively, relative to a single 125 mg IBRANCE dose given alone. No dose adjustments are required for moderate CYP3A inducers (see section 4.4). 
 Effect of acid reducing  agents  
 Under fed conditions (intake of a moderate- fat meal ), coadministration  of multiple doses of the proton pump inhibitor (PPI) rabeprazole with a single dose of 125 mg IBRANCE  decreased palbociclib Cmax 8 by 41%, but had limited impact on AUC inf (13% decrease) compared with a single dose of 125 mg IBRANCE  administered alone.  
 Under fasting conditions, the coadministration of multiple doses of the PPI rabeprazole with a single dose of 125 mg IBRANCE decreased palbociclib AUC inf and C max by 62% and 80%, respectively. Therefore, IBRANCE should be taken with food, preferably a meal (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
 Given the reduced effect on gastric p 
 H of H2- receptor antagonists and local antacids compared to PPIs, no clinically relevant effect of H2- receptor antagonists o r local antacids on palbociclib exposure is expected when palbociclib is taken with food. 
 Effects of palbociclib on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products 
 Palbociclib is a weak , time -dependent inhibitor of CYP3A following daily 125 mg dosing at  steady state. C oadministration  of multiple doses of palbociclib with  midazolam increased the midazolam AUCinf and C max values by 61% and 37%, respectively, as compared with administration of midazolam alone.  
 The dose of sensitive CYP3A substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., alfentanil, cyclosporine, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, everolimus, fentanyl, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus, and tacrolimus) may need to be reduced when coadministered with IBRANCE as IBRANCE may increase their exposure.  
 Drug -drug interaction between palbociclib and letrozole  
 Data from the drug -drug interaction (DDI) evaluation portion of a clinical study in patients with breast cancer showed that there was no drug interaction between palbociclib and letrozole when the 
2 medicinal products were coadministered.  
 Effect of tamoxifen on palbociclib exposure 
 Data from a DDI study in heal thy male subjects indicated that palbociclib exposures were comparable when a single dose of palbociclib was coadministered  with multiple doses of tamoxifen and when palbociclib was given alone.  Drug -drug interaction between palbociclib and fulvestrant  
 Data from a clinical study in patients with breast cancer showed that there was no clinically relevant drug interaction between palbociclib and fulvestrant when the two  medicinal products  were coadministered.  
 Drug -drug interaction between palbociclib and oral contraceptives 
 DDI studies of palbociclib with oral contraceptives have not been conducted (see section 4.6).  
 In vitro  studies with transporters  
 Based on in vitro  data, palbociclib is predicted to inhibit intestinal P -glycoprotein (P -gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) mediated transport. Therefore, administration of palbociclib with medicinal products that are substrates of P -gp (e.g., digoxin, dabigat ran, colchicine) or BCRP (e.g., pravastatin , rosuvastatin, fluvastatin, sulfasalazine) may increase their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. Based on in vitro  data, palbociclib may inhibit the uptake transporter organic cationic 9 transporter OCT1 and  then may increase the exposure of medical product substrates of this transporter (e.g., metformin).  
 Drug -drug interaction between palbociclib and statins 
 Concomitant use of palbociclib with statins which are substrates of CYP3A4 and/or BCRP may increase the risk of rhabdomyolysis due to increased statin plasma concentration. Cases of rhabdomyolysis including fatal cases have been reported following coadmini stration of palbociclib with simvastatin or atorvastatin.   
