4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Rime gepant is a substrate of CYP3A4, P-glycoprote in (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP ) efflux transporters (see section  5.2). 
 4 CYP3A4 inhibitors  
 Inhibitors of CYP3A4 increase plasma concentrations of rime gepant. Concomitant administration of rimegepant with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., clarithromycin, itraconazole, ritonavir) is not recommended (see  section  4.4). Concomitant administration of rimegepant with itraconazole resulted in a significant increase in rimegepant exposure (AUC by 4 -fold and C max 1.5-fold).  
 Concomitant administration of rimegepant with medicinal products that moderately inhibit CYP3A4 (e.g., diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole) may increase exposure to rime gepant. Concomitant administration of rimegepant  with fluconazole resulted  in increased exposures of rimegepant (AUC by 
1.8-fold) with no relevant effect on C max. Another dose of rimegepant within 48  hours should be avoided when it is concomitantly administered with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., fluconazole) (see section  4.2). 
 CYP3A4 inducers  
 Inducers of CYP3A4 decrease plasma concentrations of rime gepant. Concomitant administration of VYDURA  with strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. , phenobarbital, rifampicin, St John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum )) or moderate CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., bosentan, efavirenz, modafinil) is not recommended (see section  4.4). The effect of CYP3A4 induction may last for up to 2  weeks after discontinuation of the strong or moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Concomitant administration of rimegepant with rifampicin  resulted in a significant decrease (AUC reduced by 80% and C max by 64%) in rimegepant exposure, which may lead to loss of efficacy.  
 P-gp and BCRP only inhibitors  
 Inhibitors of P -gp and BCRP efflux transporters  may increase plasma concentrations of rime gepant. Another dose  of VYDURA  within 48  hours should be avoided when it is concomitantly administered with strong inhibitors of P -gp (e.g., cyclosporine, verapamil, quinidine)  (see section  4.2). Concomitant admin istration of rimegepant with cyclosporine  (a potent P -gp and BCRP inhibitor)  or with quinidine  (a selective P -gp inhibitor)  resulted in a significant increase of similar magnitude in rimegepant exposure (AUC and C max by > 50%, but less than two-fold). 
 
