4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 No clinical study evaluating drug interaction shasbeen performed using Akeega . Interactions that have been identified in studies with individual components of Akeega (niraparib or abiraterone acetate) determine the interactions that may occur with Akeega .Effects of other medicinal products on niraparib or abiraterone acetate 
 CYP3 A4 inducers and inhibitors 
 Abiraterone is a CYP3A4 substrate. In a clinical study inhealthy subjects pretreated with thestrong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin, 600 mg daily for six days, followed by a single dose of abiraterone acetate 1 000mg, the mean plasma AUC ∞of abiraterone was decreased by 55%. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampicin, rifabutin, rifapentine, phenobarbital, St. John’s wort [ Hypericum perforatum ]) during treatment with Akeega should be avoided unless the re is no therapeutic alternative (see section 4.4) .In a separate clinical study inhealthy subjects, co -administration of ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, had no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of abiraterone.Effects of niraparib or abiraterone acetate on other medicinal products 
 CYP2D6 substrates 
 Abiraterone is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. In a clinical study to determine the effects of abiraterone acetate plus prednisone (AAP) on a single dose of the CYP2D6 substrate dextromethorphan, the systemic exposure (AUC) of dextromethorphan was increased approximately 2.9 -fold. The AUC 24for dextrorphan, the active metabolite of dextromethorphan, increased approximately 33%. Dose reduct ion of medicinal products with a narrow therapeutic index that are metabolised by CYP2D6 should be considered. Examples of medicinal products metabolised by CYP2D6 include metoprolol, 10propranolol, desipramine, venlafaxine, haloperidol, risperidone, propafe none, flecainide, codeine, oxycodone and tramadol.CYP2C8 substrates 
 Abiraterone is an inhibitor of CYP2C8. In a clinical study in healthy subjects, the AUC of pioglitazone , a CYP2C8 substrate, was increased by 46% and the AUCs for M -III and M -IV, the active metabolites of pioglitazone, each decreased by 10% when pioglitazone was given together with a single dose of 1 000 mg a biraterone acetate. Patients should be monitored for signs of toxicityrelated to a CYP2C8 substrate with a narrow therapeutic index if used concomitantly with Akeega because of the abiraterone acetate component. Examples of medicinal products metabolised by CYP2C8 include pioglitazone and repaglinide (see section 4.4).Pharmacodynamic interactions 
 Akeega with vaccines or immunosuppressant agents has not been studied.The data on niraparib, in combination with cytotoxic medicinal products, are limited. Caution should be taken if Akeega is used in combination with live or live -attenuated vaccines, immunosuppressant agents or with other cytotoxic medicinal products.Use with products known to prolong QT interval 
 Since androgen deprivation treatment may prolong the QT interval, caution is advised when administering Akeega with medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval or medicinal products able to induce torsades de pointes ,such as class IA (e.g. ,quinidine, disopyramide) or class III (e.g.,amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide) antiarrhythmic medicinal products, methadone, moxifloxacin, antipsychotics, etc.Use with spironolactone 
 Spironolactone binds to the androgen receptor and may increase prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels. Use with Akeega is not recommended (see section 5.1).
