4.5 and  5.2). 
 Patients  with antiphospholipid syndrome  
 Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including dabigatran etexilate are not recommended for patients with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. In particular for patients that are triple positive (for lupus anticoag ulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and ant i-beta 
2-glycoprotein I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be associated with increased rates of recurrent thrombotic events compared with vitamin K anta gonist therapy.  
 Active cancer patients (paediatric VTE)  
 There is limited data on efficacy and safety for paediatric patients with active cancer.  
 Paediatric population  
 For some very specific paediatric patients, e.g.  patients with small bowel disease where absorption may be affected, use of an anticoagulant with parenteral route of administration should be considered.  
 Excipients  
 This medicin al product  contains less than 1  mmol sodium (23  mg) per capsule , that is to say essentially ‘sodium -free’  
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  
 Transporter interactions  
 Dabigatran etexilate is a substrate for the efflux transporter P -gp. Concomitant administratio n of P -gp inhibitors (see table  7) is expected to result in increased da bigatran plasma concentrations.  
 If not otherwise specifically described, close clinical surveillance (looking for signs of bleeding or anaemia) is required when dabigatran is co -administered with strong P -gp inhibitors. Dose reductions may be required in combination with som e P-gp inhibitors (see sections  4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and  5.1). 
 Table 7: Transporter interactions  
 P-gp inhibitors  Concomitant u se contraindicated (see section  4.3) Ketoconazole  Ketoconazole increased total dabigatran AUC 0-∞ and C max values by 2.38 -fold and 2.35 -fold, respectively, after a single oral dose of 400  mg, and by 2.53 -fold and 2.49 -fold, respectively, after m ultiple oral dosing of 400  mg ketoconazole once daily.  Dronedarone  When dabigatran etexilate and dronedarone were given at the same time total  dabigatran AUC 0-∞ and C max values increased by about 2.4 -fold and 2.3 -fold, respectively, after multiple dosing of 400  mg dronedarone twice a day , and about 2.1 -fold and 1.9 -fold, respectiv ely, after a single dose of 400  mg. Itraconazole,  cyclosporine  Based on in vitro  results a similar effect as with ketoconazole may be expected.  Glecaprevir /pibrentasvir  The concomitant use of dabigatran etexilate with the fixed -dose combination of the P -gp inhibitors glecaprevir/pibrentasvir has been shown to increase exposure of dabigatran and may increase the risk of bleeding.  12 Concomitant use not recommended  Tacrolimus  Tacrolimus has been found in vitro to have a simil ar level of inhibitory effect on P-gp as that seen with itraconazole and cyclosporine. Dabigatran etexilate has not been clinically studied together with tacrolimus. However, limited clinical data with another P -gp substrate (everolimus) suggest that the inhibition of P -gp with tacrolimus is weaker t han that observed with strong P-gp inhibitors.  Cautions to be exercised in cas e concomitant use (see sections  4.2 and  4.4) Verapamil  When dabigatran etexilate (150  mg) was co -administered with oral verapamil, the Cmax and AUC of dabigatran were increased but the magnitude of this change  differs depending on timing of administration and formulation of verapamil (see  sections  4.2 and  4.4). 
 The greatest elevation of dabigatran exposure was observed with the first dose of an  immediate release formulation of verapamil administered one hour prior to the  dabigatran etexilate intake (increase of C max by about 2.8 -fold and AUC by about  2.5-fold). The effect was progressively decreased with administration of an  extended release formulation (increase of C max by about 1.9 -fold and AUC by about 1.7-fold) or administration of multiple doses of verapamil (increase of C max by about 1.6 -fold and AUC by about 1.5 -fold).  
 There was no meaningful interaction obse rved when verapamil was given 
2 hours  after dabigatran etexilate (increase of C max by about 1.1 -fold and AUC by about  1.2-fold). This is explained by complete d dabigatran absorption after 
2 hours.  Amiodarone  When dabigatran etexilate  was co -administered  with a single oral dose of 
600 mg amiodarone, the extent and rate of absorption of amiodarone and its active metabolite DEA were essentially unchanged. The dabigatran AUC a nd Cmax were increased by about 1.6-fold and 1.5 -fold, respectively. In view of the long half -life of amiodarone the potential for an interaction may exist for weeks after discontinuation of amiodarone (see sections  4.2 and  4.4). Quinidine  Quinidine was given as 200  mg dose every 2nd hour up to a total dose of 
1 000 mg. Dabigatran etexilate was given twice daily over 3 consecutive days, on the 3rd day either with or without quinidine. Dabigatran AUC τ,ss and C max,ss were increased on average by 1.53 -fold and 1.56 -fold, respectively with concomitant quinidine (see  sections  4.2 and  4.4). Clarithromyci n When clarithromycin (500  mg twice daily) was administered together with  dabigatran etexilate in healthy volunteers, increase of AUC by about 1.19 -fold and Cmax by about 1.15 -fold was observed.  Ticagrelor  When a single dose of 75  mg dabigatran etexilate was coadministered  simultaneo usly with a loading dose of 180  mg ticagrelor, the dabigatran AUC and Cmax were increased by 1.73 -fold and 1.95 -fold, res pectively. After multiple doses of ticagrelor 90  mg twice a day  the increase of dabigatran exposure is 1.56 -fold and 1.46 -fold for C max and AUC, respectively.  
 Concomitant administ ration of a loading dose of 180 mg ticagrelor and 110  mg dabigatran etexilate (in steady state) increased the dabigatran AUC τ,ss and C max,ss by 1.49-fold and 1.65 -fold, respectively, comp ared with dabigatran etexilate given alone. When a loading dose of 180  mg ticagrelor  was given 2  hours after 
110 mg dabigatran etexilate (in steady state), the increase of dabigatran AUC τ,ss and C max,ss was reduced to 1.27 -fold and 1.23 -fold, respect ively, compared with dabigatran etexilate  given alone. This staggered intake is the  recommended administration for start of ticagrelor with a loading dose.  
 13 Concomitant administration of 90  mg ticagrelor twice a day  (maintenance dose) with 110 mg dabigatran etexilate  increased the adjusted dabigatran AUC τ,ss and Cmax,ss 1.26-fold and 1.29 -fold, respectively, compared with dabigatran etexilate given alone . Posaconazole  Posaconazole also inhibits P -gp to some extent but has not been clinically studied. Caution should be exercised when dabigatran etexilate  is co-administered with posaconazole.  P-gp inducers  Concomitant use should be avoided . e.g. rifampicin,  St. John ’s wort  (Hypericum  perforatum ), carbamazepine,  or phenytoin  Concomitant administration is expected to result in decreased dabigatran  concentrations.  
 Pre-dosing of the probe indu cer rifampicin at a dose of 600  mg once daily for  
7 days decreased total dabigatran peak and total exposure by 65.5  % and 67  %, respectively. The inducing effect was diminished resulting in dabigatran exposure  close to the reference by day  7 after cessation of rifampicin treatment. No further  increase in bioavailabili ty was observed after another 7  days.  Protease inhibitors such as ritonavir  Concomitant use not recommended  e.g. ritonavir  and its combinations  with other protease  inhibitors  These affect P -gp (either as inhibitor or as inducer).  They have not been studied and are therefore not recommended for concomitant treatment with dabigatran etexilate . P-gp substrate  Digoxin  In a study performed with 24  healthy subjects, when dabigatran etexilate was co-administered with digoxin, no changes on digoxin and no  clinically relevant changes on dabigatran exposure have been observed.  
 Anticoagulants and antiplatelet  aggregation medicinal products  
 There is no or  only limited experience with the following treatments which may increase the risk of bleeding when used concomitantly with dabigatran etexilate : anticoagulants such as unfractionated heparin (UFH), low molecular weight heparins (LMWH), and hepari n derivatives (fondaparinux, desirudin), thrombolytic medicinal products, and vitamin K antagonists, rivaroxaban or other o ral anticoagulants (see section  4.3), and antiplatelet aggregation medicinal products such as GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonists, ticlopidine, pr asugrel, ticagrelor, dextran, and sulfinpyrazone (see section  4.4). 
 UFH can be administered at doses necessary to maintain a patent central venous or arterial catheter or during catheter ablation for a trial fibrillation (see section  4.3). 
 Table  8: Interactions with anticoagulants and antiplatelet aggregation med icinal products  
 NSAIDs  NSAIDs given for short -term analgesia have been shown not to be associated with increased bleeding risk when given in conjunction with dabigatran etexilate. With chronic use  in a phase  III clinical trial comparing dabigatran to warfarin for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation patients (RE -LY), NSAIDs increased the risk of bleeding by approximately 5 0 % on both dabigatran etexilate and warfarin.  Clopidogrel  In young healthy male volunteers, the concomitant administration of dabigatran etexilate and clopidogrel resulted in no further prolongation of capillary bleeding times compared to clopidogrel monotherapy. In addition, dabigatran AUC τ,ss and Cmax,ss and the coagulation measures for dabigatran effect or the inhibition of platelet aggregation as measure of clopidogrel effect remained essentially 14 unchanged comparing combined treatment and the respective mono -treatme nts. With a loading dose of 300  mg or 600 mg clopidogrel, dabigatran AUC τ,ss and Cmax,s were increased by about 30 -40 % (see section  4.4) .  ASA  Co-administration of ASA and 150  mg dabigatran etexilate twice daily may increase the risk for any bleeding from 12  % to 18  % and 24  % with 81  mg and 
325 mg ASA, respectively (see section  4.4). LMWH  The concomitant use of LMWHs, such as enoxaparin a nd dabigatran etexilate has not been specifically investigated. After switching fro m 3-day treatment of once daily 40 mg enoxaparin s.c., 24  hours after the last dose of enoxaparin the exposure to  dabigatran was slightly lower than that after administration of dabigatran etexilate  (single dose of 220  mg) alone. A higher anti -FXa/F IIa activity was observed after dabigatran etexilate administration with enoxaparin pre -treatment compared to that after treatment with dabigatran etexilate alone. This is conside red to be due to the carry -over effect of enoxaparin treatment, and regarded as not clinic ally relevant. Other dabigatran related anti-coagulation tests were not changed signif icantly by the  pre-treatment of enoxaparin.  
 Other interactions  
 Table 9: Other interactions  
 Selective serotonin re -uptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or selective serotonin norepinephrine re -uptake inhibitors (SNRIs)  SSRIs, SNRIs  SSRIs and SNRIs increased the risk of bleeding in all treatment groups of a phase  III clinical trial comparing dabigatran to warfarin for stroke prevention in atrial  fibrillation patients (RE -LY).  Substances influencing gastric p 
 H  Pantoprazole  When dabigatran etexilate was co -administered with pantoprazole, a decrease in the dabigatran  AUC of approximately 30  % was observed. Pantoprazole and other proton -pump  inhibitors (PPI) were co -administered with dabigatran etexilate in clinical trials, and concomitant  PPI treatment did not appear to r educe the efficacy of dabigatran etexilate . Ranitidine  Ranitidine administration together with dabigatran etexilate had no clinically relevant effect on  the extent of absorption of dabigatran.  
 Interactions linked to dabigatran etexilate a nd dabigatran metabolic profile  
 Dabigatran etexilate  and dabigatran are not met abolised by the cytochrome P450  system and have no in vitro effects on human cytoch rome P450  enzymes. Therefore, related medicinal product interactions are not  expected with dabigatran.  
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
