4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Vadadustat was metabolically stable in vitro  and metabolism via cytochrome P450s (CYPs) was minimal. The metabolic pathways involved were oxidation and mainly glucuronidation. The major circulating metabolite vadadustat -O-glucuronide was catalyzed by multiple uridine 5`-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs, UGT1A1, 1A7, 1A8 and 1A9). 
 Vadadustat has potentially clinically relevant interactions with breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) substrates, OAT3 substrates, OAT1/3 inhibitors and CYP2C9 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index. 
 Vadadustat induced CYP2B6 , inhibited CYP2C8 and caused down- regulation of CYP3A4 in in vitro  experiments. However, th ese interaction s have not been examined in vivo . 7  Effect of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of vadadustat  
 Iron supplements , phosphate bi nders, and other medicinal products whose primary component consists of  multivalent cations. 
 Co-administration with oral iron supplements (e.g., ferric citrate, ferrous sulphate, sodium ferrous citrate), products which contain iron, iron-containing phosphate binders (e.g., ferric citrate, sucroferric oxyhydroxide) and non- iron-containing phosphate binders (calcium acetate, sevelamer carbonate) decreases the exposu re (Cmax and AUC) of vadadustat. 
 The co -administration of oral iron -based medicinal products reduced the bioavailability of vadadustat up to 90% and 92% in terms of the AUC ∞ and C max. 
 The co -administration of non -iron- containing phosphate binders reduced the bioavailability of vadadustat up to 55% and 52% for AUC
∞ and C max. 
 Vafseo  should be administered at least 1 hour before oral iron supplements, products whose primary component consists of  iron or iron-containing phosphate binders. As vadadustat may form a chelate with multivalent cations , Vafseo  should be administered at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after non-iron-containing phosphate binders or other medicinal products whose primary component consists of multivalent cations such as calcium, magnesium or aluminium. 
 Organic anion transporter (OAT) OAT1/OAT3 inhibitors 
 Co-administration with probenecid, an OAT1/OAT3 inhibitor, increased vadadustat AUC values almost 2 -fold. If co-administration with strong or moderate OAT1 or OAT3 inhibitors (e.g. benzylpenicillin, teriflunomide or p- aminohippuric acid) occurs, patients should be managed cautiously and evaluated for excessive effects of vadadustat. For potential adverse reactions and dose adjustment in case of rapid Hb rise please refer to sections 4.8 and 4.2. 
 Effect of vadadustat on the pharmacokinetics of other medic in
 al products  
 BCRP substrates and some statins  
 Vadadustat may increase the AUC of BCRP substrates, and some statins when co-administered. Dose adjustment of co- prescribed BCRP substrates may be needed. The following have been studied  (see Table 2) . 
 Table 2: Potential clinically significant drug interactions between vadadustat and BCRP substrates, and select statins Co-administered medicinal product  Effect on concentration  Clinical comment  sulfasalazine  4.5-fold ↑ sulfasalazine AUC; no substantial change in active metabolites exposure  Monitor for signs of adverse events of sulfasalazine.  simvastatin  ~2-fold ↑ simvastatin AUC  Limit the top dose of simvastatin in patients with CKD on Vafseo  to 20  mg daily. Monitor for signs of adverse events of simvastatin.  rosuvastatin  2- to 3-fold ↑rosuvastatin AUC and C max Limit the top dose of rosuvastatin in patients with CKD on Vafseo  to 10  mg daily. Monitor for signs of adverse events of rosuvastatin.  
 8 In addition to sulfasalazine, simvastatin, and rosuvastatin, monitor for signs of excessive effects of co-administered BCRP substrates such as fluvastatin, nelfinavir, pitavastatin, and  topotecan, and for the need of their dose reduction.  OAT3 substrates 
 Vadadustat may increase the AUC of OAT3 substrates when co -administered. The AUC of furosemide (40  mg) increased 2 -fold following multiple doses of Vafseo  (600 mg once daily). Monitor for signs of excessive effects of the co -administered OAT3 substrates such as famotidine, furosemide, methotrexate, olmesartan, sitagliptin, and zidovudine. 
 Dose adjustment of concomitantly administered OAT3 substrate may be needed.  
 CYP2C9 substrates 
 Co-administration of vadadustat (600 mg) with celecoxib (200  mg) increased celecoxib Cmax and AUC 
60% and 11%, respectively. Patients receiving warfarin or other narrow therapeutic CYP2C9 substrates (e.g., phenytoin) must therefore be managed cautiously and evaluated for excessive effects when treated with vadadustat.  
 CYP2B6 substrates  Vadadustat is an in vitro  inducer of CYP2B6. Co- administration of v adadustat with sensitive substrates of CYP2B6 (e.g. efavirenz, bupropion) may alter their pharmacokinetics, and therefore caution should be exercised when vadadustat is co- administered with CYP2B6 substrates.  
 CYP3A4 substrates  Based on in vitro  data, vadadustat may have a potential for CYP3A4 downregulation. Co-administration of vadadustat with CYP3A4 substrates may alter their pharmacokinetics and therefore caution should be exercised when vadadusta t is co -administered with CYP3A4  substrates.  
 CYP2C8 substrates 
 Based on in vitro  data, v adadustat may inhibit CYP2C8 and therefore may increase exposure to CYP2C8 substrates and therefore caution should be exercised when vadadusta t is co -administered with CYP2C8  substrates.  
 
