4.5 Interaction with other m edicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Coadministration of multiple doses of dapagliflozin and metformin does not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of either dapagliflozin or metformin in healthy subjects.No interaction studies have been performed for Xigduo . The following statements reflect the information available on the individual active substances.Dapagliflozin 
 Pharmacodynamic interactions 
 Diuretics 
 This medicinal product may add to the diuretic effect of thiazide and loop diuretics and may increase the risk of dehydration and hypotension (see section 4.4).Insulin and insulin secretagogues 
 Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulphonylureas, cause hypoglycaemia. Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or an insulin secret agogue may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia when used in combination with dapagliflozin (see sections 4.2 and 4.8).Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 The metabolism of dapagliflozin is primarily via glucuronide conjugation mediated by UDP -glucur onosyltransferase 1A9 (UGT1A9).In in vitro studies, dapagliflozin neither inhibited cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, nor induced CYP1A2, CYP2B6 or CYP3A4. Ther efore, this medicinal product is not expecte d to alter the metabolic clearance of coadministered medicinal products that are metabolised by these enzymes.Effect of other medicinal products on dapagliflozin 
 Interaction studies conducted in healthy subjects, using mainly a single -dose design, suggest that the pharmacokinetics of dapagliflozin are not altered by pioglitazone, sitagliptin, glimepiride, voglibose, hydrochlorothiazide, bumetanide, valsartan, or simvastatin.Following coadministration of dapagliflozin with rifampicin (an inducer of various active transporters and drug -metabolising enzymes) a 22 %decrease in dapagliflozin systemic exposure (AUC) was observed, but with no clinically meaningful effect on 24 -hour urinary glucose excretion. No dose adjustment is recommended. A clinically relevant effect with other inducers (e.g. carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital) is not expected.8Following coadministration of dapagliflozin with mefenamic acid (an inhibitor of UGT1A9), a 55 %increase in dapagliflozin systemic exposure was seen, but with no clinically meaningful effect on 
24-hour urinary glucose excretion. No dose adjustment is recommended.Effect of dapagliflozin on other medicinal products 
 In interaction studies conducted in healthy subjects, using mainly a single -dose design, dapa gliflozin did not alter the pharmacokinetics of pioglitazone, sitagliptin, glimepiride, hydrochlorothiazide, bumetanide, valsartan, digoxin (a P -gp substrate) or warfarin (S -warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate), or the anti-coagulatory effects of warfarin as meas ured by INR. Combination of a single dose of dapagliflozin 20 mg and simvastatin (a CYP3A4 substrate) resulted in a 19 %increase in AUC of simvastatin and 31 %increase in AUC of simvastatin acid. The increase in simvastatin and simvastatin acid exposures a re not considered clinically relevant .Interference with 1,5 -anhydroglucitol (1,5 -AG) assay 
 Monitoring glyc aemic control with 1,5 -AG assay is not recommended as measurements of 1,5 -AG are unreliable in assessing glyc aemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use of alternative methods to monitor glyc aemic control is advised .Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.Metformin 
 Concomitant use not recommended 
 Cationic substances that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g. cimetidine) may interact with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. A study conducted in seven normal hea lthy volunteers showed that cimetidine, administered as 40 0mg twice daily, increased metformin systemic exposure (AUC) by 50 %and C maxby 81 %. Therefore, close monitoring of glycaemic control, dose adjustment within the recommended posology and changes in diabetic treatment should be considered when cationic med icinal products that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion are coadministered.Alcohol 
 Alcohol intoxication is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidosis, particularly in the case of fasting, malnutrition or hepatic impairment due to the metformin active substance of this medicinal product (see section 4.4). Consumption of alcohol and medicinal products containing alcohol should be avoided.Iodinated contrast agents 
 Intravascular administration of iodinated contrast agents may lead to contrast induced nephropathy, resulting in metformin accumulation and increased risk of lactic acidosis . Xigduo must be discontinued prior to, or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarted until at least 48 hours after, provided that renal functio n has been re -evaluated and found to be stable (see sections 4.2 and4.4).Combination requiring precautions for use 
 Glucocorticoids (given by systemic and local routes), beta -2agonists, and diuretics have intrinsic hyperglycaemic activity. The patient s hould be informed and more frequent blood glucose monitoring perfomed, especially at the beginning of treatment with such medicinal products. If necessary, the dose of the glucose -lower ing medicinal product should be adjusted during therapy with the other medicinal product and on its discontinuation.Some medicinal products can adversely affect renal function which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo -oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists and diuretics, especially loop diuretics. When starting or using such products in combination with metformin, close monitoring of renal function is necessary.9Insulin and insulin secretagogues 
 Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulphonylureas, cause hypoglycaemia. Therefore ,a lower dose of insulin or an insulin secretagogue may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia when used in combination with metformin (see sections 4.2 and 4.8) .
