4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products a nd other forms of interaction 
 Co-administration of multiple doses of saxagliptin (2.5 mg twice daily) and metformin (1,000 mg twice daily) did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of either saxagliptin or metformin in patients with type 2diabetes.Ther e have been no formal interaction studies for Komboglyze. The following statements reflect the information available on the individual active substances.Saxagliptin 
 Clinical data described below suggest that the risk for clinically meaningful inter actions with co-administered medicinal products is low. The metabolism of saxagliptin is primarily mediated by cytochrome P450 3A4/5 (CYP3A4/5). In in vitro studies, saxagliptin and its major metabolite neither inhibited CYP1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 
2C19, 2D6, 2E1, or 3A4, nor induced CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9, or 3A4. In studies conducted in healthy subjects, neither the pharmacokinetics of saxagliptin nor its major metabolite, were meaningfully altered by metformin, glibenclamide, pioglitazone, digoxin, simvastat in, omeprazole, antacids or famotidine. In addition, saxagliptin did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of metformin, glibenclamide, pioglitazone, digoxin, simvastatin, the active components of a combined oral contraceptive (ethinyl estradiol and norgestimate), diltiazem or ketoconazole.Concomitant administration of saxagliptin with the moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4/5 diltiazem, increased the C maxand AUC of saxagliptin by 63% and 2.1 -fold, respectively, and the corresponding values for the active metabolite were decreased by 44% and 34%, respectively.Concomitant administration of saxagliptin with the potent inhibitor of CYP3A4/5 ketoconazole, increased the C maxand AUC of saxagliptin by 62% and 2.5 -fold, respectively, and the corresponding value sfor the active metabolite were decreased by 95% and 88%, respectively.Concomitant administration of saxagliptin with the potent CYP3A4/5 inducer rifampicin, reduced C maxand AUC of saxagliptin by 53% and 76%, respectively. The exposure of the active me tabolite and the plasma DPP4 activity inhibition over a dose interval were not influenced by rifampicin (see section 4.4).The co -administration of saxagliptin and CYP3A4/5 inducers, other than rifampicin (such as carbamazepine, dexamethasone, phenobarbit al and phenytoin) have not been studied and may result in decreased plasma concentration of saxagliptin and increased concentration of its major metabolite. Glycaemic control should be carefully assessed when saxagliptin is used concomitantly with a potent 
 CYP3A4 inducer.The effects of smoking, diet, herbal products, and alcohol use on the pharmacokinetics of saxagliptin have not been specifically studied.Metformin 
 Concomitant use not recommended 
 Cationic substances that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g. cimetidine) may interact with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. A study conducted in seven 8normal hea lthy volunteers showed that cimetidine, administered as 400 mg twice daily, increased metformin systemic e xposure (AUC) by 50% and C maxby 81%. Therefore, close monitoring of glycaemic control, dose adjustment within the recommended posology and changes in diabetic treatment should be considered when cationic medicinal products that are eliminated by renal tub ular secretion are co -administered.Alcohol 
 Alcohol intoxication is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidosis, particularly in the case of fasting, malnutrition or hepatic impairment due to the metformin active substance of Komboglyze (see section4.4). Consumption of alcohol and medicinal products containing alcohol should be avoided.Iodinated contrast agents 
 Intravascular administration of iodinated contrast agents may lead to contrast induced nephropathy, resulting in metformin accumulation and increased risk of lactic acidosis . Komboglyze must be discontinued prior to, or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarted until at least 48 hours after, provided that renal function has been re -evaluated and found to be stable (see sectio ns4.2 and 
4.4).Combination requiring precautions for use 
 Glucocorticoids (given by systemic and local routes), beta -2 agonists, and diuretics have intrinsic hyperglycaemic activity. The patient should be informed and more frequent blood glucose monitori ng perfo rmed, especially at the beginning of treatment with such medicinal products. If necessary, the dose of the anti -hyper glycaemic medicinal product should be adjusted during therapy with the other medicinal product and on its discontinuation.Some me dicinal products can adversely affect renal function which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo -oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists and diuretics, especially loop di uretics. When starting or using such products in combination with metformin, close monitoring of renal function is necessary.
