4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 The administration of 6 -mercaptopurine with food may decrease systemic exposure slightly but this is unlikely to be of clinical significance. Therefore, Xaluprine  may be taken with food or on an empty stomach, but patients should standardise the method of administration. The dose should not be taken with milk or dairy products since they contain xanthine oxidase, an enzyme which metabolises 6 –mercaptopurine and mig ht therefore lead to reduced plasma concentrations of mercaptopurine.  
 Effects of mercaptopurine on other medicinal products  Concomitant administration of yellow fever vaccine is contraindicated, due to the risk of fatal disease in immunocompromised patients (see section  4.3). 
 Vaccinations with other live organism vaccines are not recommended in immunocompromised individuals (see section  4.4). 
 Inhibition of the anticoagulant effect of warfarin, when given with 6 -mercaptopurine, has been reported. Monitoring of the INR  (International Normalised R atio) value is recommended during concomitant administration with oral anticoagulants.  
 Cytotoxic agents may decrease the intestinal absorption of phenytoin. Careful monitoring of the phenytoin serum levels is recommended. It is possible that the levels of other anti -epileptic medicinal products may also be altered. Serum antiepileptic levels should be closely monitored during treatment with Xaluprine , making dose adjustments as necessary.  
 Effects of other medicinal products on mercaptopurine  When allopurinol and Xaluprine  are administered concomitantly it is essential that only a quarter of the usual dose of Xaluprine  is given since allopurinol decreases the rate of metabolism of 
6-mercaptopurine via xanthine oxidase. Also other xanthine oxidase inhibitors, such as febuxostat, 8 may decrease the metabolism of mercaptopurine and concomitant administration is not recommended as data are insufficient to determine an adequate dose reduction.  
 As there is in vitro  evidence that aminosalicylate derivatives (e .g. olsalazine, mesalazine or sulfazalazine) inhibit the TPMT enzyme, which metabolises 6 -mercaptopurine, they should be administered with caution to patients receiving concurrent Xaluprine  therapy (see section 4.4).  
 Infliximab  Interactions have been observed between azathioprine, a pro -drug of 6 -mercaptopurine, and infliximab. Patients receiving azathioprine experienced transient increases in 6 -TGN (6 -thioguanine nucleotide, an active metabolite of azathioprine) levels and decreases in the mean leukocyte count in the initial weeks following infliximab infusion, which returned to previous levels after 3 months.  
 Methotrexate  Methotrexate (20  mg/m2 orally) increased mercaptopurine exposure (area under curve, AUC ) by approximately 31% and methotrexate (2 or 5  g/m2 intravenously) increased mercaptopurine AUC by 
69% and 93%, respectively. When administered concomitantly with high dose methotrexate, the mercaptopurine dose may need  adjust ment.  
 
