4.5 and 4.8).  If a patient experiences a hematologic toxicity of Grade 4 neutrop aenia (ANC  < 0.5  x 109/l) lasting 
≥ 4 weeks, then the dose should be reduced by 25% for the next cycle.  
 Any patient who experiences a severe non- hematologic to xicity (US NCI CTC Grade  3 toxicity) on a third occasion, a severe toxicity that does not recover within 14 days  (excluding nausea/vomiting) or a life-threatening or disabling non-infectious non-hematologic toxicity (US NCI CTC Grade 4 toxicity) should be withdrawn from treatment with clofarabine (see section  4.2). 
  Patients who have previously received a hematopoietic stem cell transplant ( HSCT) may be at higher risk for hepatotoxicity suggestive of veno- occlusive disease (VOD) following treatment with clofarabine (40  mg/m
2) when used in combination with etoposide (100 mg/m2) and cyclophosphamide (440 mg/m2). In the post -marketing period, following treatment with clofarabine, serious hepatotoxic adverse reactions of VOD in paediatric and adult patients have been associated with a fatal outcome. Cases of hepatitis and hepatic failure, including fatal outcomes, have been reported with clofarabine treatment (see section 4.8).  
 Most patients received conditioning regimens that included busulfan, melphalan, and/or the combination of cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation. Severe hepatotoxic events have been reported in a Phase 1/2 combination study of clofarabine in paediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute leuk aemia .  
 There are currently limited data on the safety and efficacy of clofarabine when administered for more than 3 treatment cycles.  
 Evoltra contains sodium   This medicinal product contains 72 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to 3.6% of the WHO recommended maximum daily intake for sodium.  The maximum daily dose of this product is equivalent to 23.4% of the WHO recommended maximum daily i ntake for sodium. Evoltra is considered high in sodium. This should be particularly taken into account for those on a low salt diet.  
 4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 No interaction studies have been performed. However, there are no known clinically significant interactions with other medicinal products or laboratory tests. 
 Clofarabine is n ot detectably metabolised by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme system.  Therefore, it is unlikely to interact with active substances which inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 enzymes. In addition, clofarabine is unlikely to inhibit any of the major 5 human CY P isoforms (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 
2D6 and 3A4) or to induce 2 of these isoforms (1A2 and 3A4) at the plasma concentrations achieved following intravenous infusion of 52 mg/m
2/day.  As a result, it is not expected to affect the metabolism of active substances whi ch are known substrates for these enzymes.  7  Clofarabine is predominately excreted via the kidneys. Thus , the concomitant use of medicinal products that have been associated with renal toxicity  and those eliminated by tubular secretion  such as NSAIDs, ampho tericin B,  methotrexate , aminosides, organoplatines, foscarnet, pentamidine, cyclosporin, tacrolimus, acyclovir and valganciclovir , should be avoided particularly during the 5 day clofarabine administration period (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.2).   
 The liver is a potential target organ for toxicity. Thus, the concomitant use of medicinal products that have been associated with hepatic toxicity should be avoided wherever possibl e (see sections 4.4 and 
4.8).  Patients taking medicinal products known to affect blood pressure or cardiac function should be closely monitored during treatment with clofarabine (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
 
