4.5 Interaction with other medic inal products and other forms o f interaction  
 Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan tablets contain lopinavir and ritonav ir, both of which are inhibitors of the P450 isoform CYP3A in vitro . Co-administration of lopinavir /ritonavir and medicinal produc ts primarily metabolised by CYP3A may result in  increased plasma concentrati ons of the other medicinal product, which could increase or prolong its therapeutic and adverse reactions . Lopinavir/ritonavir do es not inhibit CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2E1, CYP2B6 or CYP1A2 at clinically relevan t concentrations ( see section 4.3). 
 Lopinavir/ritonavir has been shown in vivo to induce its own metabolism and to increase the biotransformation of some medicinal products metabolised by cyt ochrome P450 enzymes (including CYP2C9 and CYP2C19) and by glucuronidation. This may result in lowered plasma con centrations and potential decrease of efficacy of co-administered medicinal pro ducts.  
 Medicinal products that are cont raindicated spec ifically due to  the expected magnitude  of interaction and potential for serious adverse e vents are listed in section 4.3.   
 All interaction studie s, when otherwise not stated, were perfor med using lopinavir/ritonavir capsules, which gives an approximately 20% lower exposure of lopinavir than the  200/50 mg tablets.   
10  Known and theoretical interactions with selected antiretroviral s and non-antiretroviral medicinal products are listed in the table bel ow. This list is not  intended to be incl usive or comprehensive.  Individual Sm 
 PCs should be consulted. 
 Interaction table  
 Interactions between l opinavir/ritonavir an d co-administered me dicinal products are listed in the table below (increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔ ”, once daily as “QD”, twice daily as “BID” and three times daily as "TID").  
 Unless otherwise stated, studies detailed below have been perfo rmed with the recommended dosage of lopinavir/ritonavir (i.e. 400/100 mg twice daily).  Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, Cmax, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Antiretroviral Agents  Nucleoside/Nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)  Stavudine, Lamivudine Lopinavir: ↔ No dose ad justment necessar y. Abacavir, Zidovudine Abacavir, Zidovudine:  Concentrations may be reduced due to increased glucuronidation by lopinavir/ritonavir.  The clinical significance of reduced abacavir and zidovudine concentrations is unknown.  
 Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (DF), 300 mg QD  (equivalent to 245 mg tenofovir disoproxil) Tenofovir:  AUC: ↑ 32%  Cmax: ↔  Cmin: ↑ 51%  
 Lopinavir: ↔  No dose adjustment necessary.  Higher tenofovir conc entrations could potentiate tenofovir associated adverse events, including renal disorders.  Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)  Efavirenz, 600 mg QD  Lopinavir:  AUC: ↓ 20%  Cmax: ↓ 13%  Cmin: ↓ 42%  The Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan tablets dosage should be increased to 
500/125 mg twice daily when co-administered with efavirenz.  Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan must not be administered once daily in combination with efavirenz.  Efavirenz, 600 mg QD  
 (Lopinavir/ritonavir 
500/125 mg BID)  Lopinavir: ↔  (Relative to 4 00/100 mg BID administered alone)  Nevirapine, 200 mg BID   Lopinavir:  AUC: ↓ 27%  Cmax: ↓ 19%  Cmin: ↓ 51%  The Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan tablets dosage should be increased to 
500/125 mg twice daily when co-administered with nevirapine.  Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan must not be administered once daily in combination with  nevirapine.  Etravirine  (Lopinavir/ritonavir tablet 
400/100 mg BID)  Etravirine:  AUC: ↓ 35%  Cmin: ↓ 45%  Cmax: ↓ 30%  
 Lopinavir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↓ 20%  Cmax: ↔ No dose adjustment necessary  
11 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Rilpivirine  (Lopinavir/ritonavir capsule 400/100 mg BID)  Rilpivirine:  AUC: ↑ 52%  Cmin: ↑ 74%  Cmax: ↑ 29%  
 Lopinavir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↓ 11%  Cmax: ↔  
 (inhibition of CYP3A enzymes)  Concomitant use of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with rilpivirine causes an increase in the plasma concentrations of rilpivirine, but no dose adjustme nt is required.  HIV CCR5 – antagonist  Maraviroc Maraviroc:  AUC: ↑ 295%  Cmax: ↑ 97%  
 Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  The dose of maraviroc should be decreased to 150  mg twice daily during co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan 
400/100 mg twice daily.  Integrase inhibitor  Raltegravir  Raltegravir:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔  C12 : ↓ 30%  
 Lopinavir: ↔  No dose adjustment necessary  
12 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Co-administration with other HI V protease inhibitors (PIs)  According to current treatment guidelines, dual therapy with pr otease inhibitors i s generally not recommended.  Fosamprenavir/ ritonavir (700/100 mg BID)  (Lopinavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg BID)  
 or   Fosamprenavir (1400 mg BID)  (Lopinavir/ritonavir 
533/133 mg BID)  Fosamprenavir:  Amprenavir concentrations are significantly reduced.  Co-administration of  increased doses of fosamprenavir (1400 mg BID) with lopinavir/ritonavir (533/133 mg BID) to protease inhibitor-experienced patients resulted in a  higher incidence of gastrointestinal adverse events and elevations in triglycerides with the combination regimen without increases in virolog ical efficacy, when compared with standard doses of fosamprenavir/ritonavir. Concomitant administration of these medicinal products is not recommended.  
 Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan must not be administered once daily in combination with amprenavir. Indinavir, 600 mg BID  Indinavir:  AUC: ↔  Cmin: ↑ 3.5-fold  Cmax: ↓  (relative to indin avir 800 mg TID alone)  
 Lopinavir: ↔  (relative to histo rical comparison) The appropriate doses for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established. Saquinavir  1000 mg BID  Saquinavir: ↔  No dose a djustment necessary.  Tipranavir/ritonavir  (500/100 mg BID)  Lopinavir:  AUC: ↓ 55%  Cmin: ↓ 70%  Cmax: ↓ 47% Concomitant adminis tration of these medicinal products is not recommended. Acid reducin g agents  Omeprazole (40 mg QD)  Omeprazole: ↔  Lopinavir: ↔  No dose adjustment necessary  Ranitidine (150 mg single dose)  Ranitidine: ↔  No dose adjustment necessary  Alpha 1 adrenoreceptor antagonist  Alfuzosin Alfuzosin:  Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir, concentrations of alfuzosin are expected to increase.  Concomitant admin istration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and alfuzosin is contra-indicated (see section 4.3) as alfuzosin-related toxicity, including hypotension, may be increased.   
13 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Analgesics  Fentanyl  Fentanyl:  Increased risk of side-effects (respiratory depress ion, sedation) due to higher plasma concentrations because of CYP3A4 inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  Careful monitoring of adverse effects (notably respirato ry depression but also sedation) is recommended when fentanyl is concomitantly administered with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan.  
 Antianginal Ranolazine Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir, concentrations of ranolazine are expected to increase. The concomitant adm inistration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and ranolazine is contraindicated (see section 4.3).Antiarrh ythmics  Amiodarone, Dronedarone Amiodarone, Dronedarone: Concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A4 inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Concomitant admin istration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and amiodarone or dronedarone is contraindicated (see section 4.3) as the risk of arrhythmias or other serious adverse reactions may be increased.Digoxin Digoxin:  Plasma concentrations may be increased due to P-glycoprotein inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. The increased digoxin level may lessen over time as Pgp induction develops.  Caution is warrant ed and therapeutic drug monitoring of digoxin concentrations, if available, is recommended in case of co-administration of L opinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and digoxin. Particular caution should be used when prescribing Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan in patients taking digoxin as th e acute inhibitory effect of ritonavir on Pgp is expected to significantly increase digoxin levels. Initiation of  digoxin in patients already taking Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is likely to r esult in lower than expected increases of digoxin concentrations.  Bepridil, Systemic Lidocaine, and Quinidine Bepridil, Systemic Lidocaine, Quinidine:  Concentrations may be increased when co-administered with lopinavir/ritonavir.  Caution is warrant ed and therapeutic drug concentration monitoring is recommended when available. Antibiotics  Clarithromycin Clarithromycin:  Moderate increases in clarithromycin AUC are expected due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  For patients with renal impairment (Cr 
 CL < 30 ml/min) dose reduction of clarithromycin should be considered (see section 4.4). Caution should be exercised in administering clarithromycin with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan to patients with impaired hepatic or renal function.   
14 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Anticancer a gents and kinase inhibitors 
 Abemaciclib Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir. Co administration of  abemaciclib and Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan should be avoided.  If this co  administration is judged unavoidable , refer to the abemaciclib Sm 
 PC for dosage adjustment recommendations.  Monitor for ADRs related to abemaciclib. Apalutamide Apalutamide is a moderate to strong CYP3A4 inducer and this may lead to a decreased exposure of lopinavir/ritonavir. 
 Serum concentrations of apalutamide may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Decreased exposure of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan may result in potential loss of virological response.   In addition, co-administration of apalutamide and Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan may lead to serious adverse events including seizure due to higher apalutamide levels.  Concomitant use of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with apalutamide is not recommended.Afatinib 
 (Ritonavir 200 mg twice daily) Afatinib: AUC: ↑  Cmax: ↑ 
 The extent of increase depends on the timing of ritonavir  administration. 
 Due to BCRP (breast cancer resistance protein/ABCG2) and acute P-gp inhibition b y lopinavir/ritonavi r 
 Caution should be exercised in administering afatinib with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan. Refer to the afatinib Sm 
 P C for dosage adjustment recommendations. Monitor for ADRs related to afatinib Ceritinib Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A and P-gp inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir Caution should be exercised in administering ceritinib with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan.  Refer to the ceritinib Sm 
 P C for dosage adjustment recommendations.  Monitor for ADRs related to ceritinib. Most tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as dasatinib and nilotinib, vincristine, vinblastine Most tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as dasatinib and n ilotinib, also vincristine and vinblastine:  Risk of increased adverse events due to higher serum concentrations because of CYP3A4 inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  Careful monitoring o f the tolerance of these anticancer agents.  
15 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Encorafenib Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Co-administration of  encorafenib with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan may increase encorafenib exposure which may increase the r isk of toxicity, including the risk of serious adverse events such as QT interval prolongation.  Co administration of encorafenib and Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan should be avoided.  If the benefit is considere d to outweigh the risk and Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan must be used, patients should be carefully monitored for safety. Fostamatinib Increase in  fostamatinib metabolite R406 exposure Co-administration of fostamatinib with Lopinavir/Rito navir Mylan may increase fostamatin ib metabolite R406 exposure resulting in dose-related adverse events such as hepatotoxicity, neutropenia, hypertension, or diarrhoea. Refer to the fostamatinib Sm 
 PC for dose reduction recommendations if such events occur. Ibrutinib Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Co-administration of ibrutinib and Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan may increase ibrutinib exposure which may increase the r isk of toxicity including risk of tumor lysis syndrome. Co adm inistration of ibrutinib and Lopin avir/Ritonavir Mylan should be avoided.  If the benefit is considere d to outweigh the risk and Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan must be used, reduce the ibrutinib dose to 140 mg and monitor patient closely for toxicity. Neratinib Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir. Concomitant use o f neratinib with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is contraindicated due to serious and/or life threatening po tential reactions including hepatotoxi city (see section 
4.3).  
16 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Venetoclax Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir, resulting in increased risk o f tumor lysis syndrome at the do se initiation and during the ramp-up phase (see section 4.3 and refer to the venetoclax Sm 
 PC). 
 For patients who have completed the ramp-up phase and are on a steady daily dose of venetoclax, reduce the venetoclax dose by at least 75% when used with strong CYP3A inhibitors (refer to the venetoclax Sm 
 PC for dosing instructions).  Patients should be closely monitored for signs related to venetoclax toxicities. Anticoa gulants  Warfarin Warfarin:  Concentrations may be affected when co-administered with lopinavir/ritonavir due to CYP2C9 induction.  It is recommended that INR (international norm alised ratio) be monitored.   Rivaroxaban  (Ritonavir 600 mg twice daily)  Rivaroxaban:  AUC: ↑ 153%  Cmax: ↑ 55%  
 Due to CYP3A and P-gp inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  Co-administration of rivaroxaban and Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan may increase rivaroxaban exposure which may increase the risk of bleeding.  The use of rivaroxaban is not recommended in pa tients receiving concomitant treatment with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan (see section 4.4).  Dabigatran etexilate, Edoxaban Dabigatran etexilate, Edoxaban: Serum concentrations may be increased due to P-gp inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Clinical monitori ng and/or dose reduction of the direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC) should be considered when a DOAC transported by P-gp but not metabolised by CYP3A4, including dabigatran etexilate and edoxaban, is co-administered with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan. Vorapaxar Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir The coadministration of vorapaxar with Lopinavir/Ritona vir Mylan is not recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to the vorapaxar Sm 
 PC). Anticonvulsants   
17 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Phenytoin Phenytoin:  Steady-state concentrations was moderately decreased due to CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 induction by lopinavir/ritonavir.  
 Lopinavir:  Concentrations are decreased due to CYP3A induction by phenytoin.  Caution should be exercised in administering phenytoin with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan.  Phenytoin levels should be monitored when co-administering with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan.  When co-administered with phenytoin, an increase of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan dosage may be envisaged. Dose adjustment has not been evaluated in clinical practice.  Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan must not be administered once daily in combination with phenytoin.  Carbamazepine and Phenobarbital Carbamazepine:  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  
 Lopinavir:  Concentrations may be decreased due to CYP3A induction by carbamazepine and phenobarbital.  Caution should be exercised in administering carbamazepine or phenobarbital with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan.  Carbamazepine and phenobarbital levels should be monitored when co-administering with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan.  When co-administered with carbamazepine or phenobarbital, an increase of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan dosage may be envisaged. Dose adjustment has not been evaluated in clinical practice.  Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan must not be administered once daily in combination with carbamazepine and phenobarbital.   
18 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Lamotrigine and Valpro ate  Lamotrigine:  AUC: ↓ 50%  Cmax: ↓ 46%  Cmin: ↓ 56%  
 Due to induction  of lamotrigine glucuronidation  Valproate: ↓  Patients should be monitored closely for a decreased VPA effect when Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and valproic acid or valproate are given concomitantly. 
 In patients star ting or stopping Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan while currently taking ma intenance dose of lamotrigine:  lamotrigine dose  may need to be increased if Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is added, or decreased if Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is discontinued; therefore plasma lamotrigine monitoring should be conducted, particularly before and during 2 weeks after starting or stopping Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan, in order to see if lamotrigine dose adjustment is needed.  In patients currently taking Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and starting lamotrigine: no dose adjustments to the recommended dose escalation of lamotrigine should be necessary.  Antidepressants and Anxiol ytics Trazodone single dose  (Ritonavir, 200 mg BID)  Trazodone:  AUC: ↑ 2.4-fold  
 Adverse events of nausea, dizziness, hypotension and syncope were observed following co-administration of trazodone and ritonavir.  It is unknown whether the combination of Lop inavir/Ritonavir Mylan causes a similar increase in trazodone exposure. The combination should be used with caution and a lower dose of trazodone should be considered.  
 Antifungals Ketoconazole and Itraconazole Ketoconazole, Itr aconazole: Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. High doses of ketoconazole and itraconazole (> 200 mg/day) are not recommended.  Voriconazole Voriconazole:  Concentrations may be decreased. Co-administration of voriconazole and low dose ritonavir (100 mg BID) as contained in Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan tablets should be avoided unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to patie nt justifies the use of voriconazole.  Anti-gout agents   
19 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Colchicine single dose  
 (Ritonavir 200 mg twice daily)  Colchicine:  AUC: ↑ 3-fold  Cmax: ↑ 1.8 -fold  
 Due to P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibition by ritonavir.  Concomitant admin istration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with colchicine in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment is contraindicated du e to a potential increase of colchicine-related serious and/or life-threatening reactions such as neuromuscular toxicity (including rhabdomyolysis) (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). A reduction in colchicine dosage or an interruption of colchicine treatment is recommended in patients with normal renal or  hepatic function if treatment with L opinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is required. Refer to colchicine prescribing information. Antihistamines Astemizole Terfenadine  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  Concomitant admin istration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and astemizole and terfenadine is contraindicated as it may increase the risk of serious arrhythmias from these agents (see section 4.3).   
20 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Anti-in fectives  Fusidic acid  Fusidic acid:  Concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  Concomitant admin istration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with fusidic acid is contra-indicated in dermatological indications due to the increased risk of adverse events related to fusidic  acid, notably rhabdomyolysis (see section 4.3). When used for osteo-articular infections, where the co-administration is unavoidable, close clinical monitori ng for muscular adverse events is strongly recommended (see section 4.4).  Antimycobacterials  Bedaquiline (single dose)  
 (Lopinavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg BID, multiple dose) Bedaquiline: AUC: ↑ 22% Cmax: ↔ 
 A more pronounced effect on bedaquiline plasma exposures may be observed during prolonged co-administration with lopinavir/ritonavir. 
 CYP3A4 inhibition likely due to lopinavir/ritonavir.  Due to the risk of bedaquiline related adverse events, the combination of bedaquiline and Lopi navir/Ritonavir Mylan should be avoided. If the benefit outweighs the risk, co-administration of  bedaquiline with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan must be done with caution. More frequent electrocardiogram monitoring and monitoring of transaminases is recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to the bed aquiline Sm 
 PC). Delamanid (100 mg BID)  (Lopinavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg BID) Delamanid: AUC: ↑ 22%  
 DM-6705 (delamanid active metabolite): AUC: ↑ 30% 
 A more pronounced effect on DM-6705 exposure may be observed during prolonged co-administration with lopinavir/ritonavir. 
 Due to the risk of  QTc prolongation associated with DM-6705, if co-administration of delamanid with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is considered necessary, very frequent ECG monitoring throughout the full delamanid treatment period is recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to the delamanid Sm 
 PC).  
21 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Rifabutin, 150 mg QD Rifabutin (parent drug and active 25-O-desacetyl metabolite):  AUC: ↑ 5.7 -fold  Cmax:↑ 3.5-fold  When given with Lop inavir/Ritonavir Mylan the recommended dose of rifabutin is 150 mg 3 times per week on set days (for example Monday-Wednesday-Friday). Increased monitoring for rif abutin-associated adverse reactions including neutropenia and uveitis is warranted due to an expected increase in exposure to rifabutin. Further dosage reduction of rifabutin to 150 mg twice weekly on set days is recommended for patients in whom the 150 mg dose 
3 times per week is not tolerated. It should be kept in mi nd that the twice weekly dosage of 150 mg may not provide an optimal exposure to rifabutin thus leading to a risk of rifamycin resistance and a treatment failure. No dose adjustment is needed for Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan.  Rifampicin Lopinavir:  Large decreases in lopinavir concentrations may be observed due to CYP3A induction by rifampicin. Co-administration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with rifampicin is not recommended as the decrease in lopinavir concentrations may in turn signifi cantly decrease the lopinavir therapeutic effect. A dose adjustment of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan 400 mg/400 mg (i.e. Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan 
400/100 mg + ritonavir 300 mg) twice daily has allowed compensating for the CYP 3A4 inducer effect of rifampicin. However, such a dose adjustment might be associated with ALT/AST elevations and with increase in gastroin testinal disorders. Therefore, this co-administration should be avoided unless judged strictly necessary. If this co-administration is judged unavoidable, increased dose of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan at 400 mg/400 mg twice daily may be administere d with rifampicin under close safety and therapeutic drug monitoring. The Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan dose should be titrated u pward only after rifampicin has b een initiated (see section 4.4).   
22 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Antips ychotics  Lurasidone Due to CY P3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir, concentrations of lurasidone are expected to increase. The concomitant adm inistration with lurasidone is contraindicated (see section 4.3). Pimozide Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir, concentrations of pimozide are expected to increase. Concomitant admin istration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and pimozide is contraindicated as it may increase the risk of serious haematologic abnor malities or other serious adverse effects from this agent (see section 4.3) Quetiapine Due to CY P3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir, concentrations of quetiapine are expected to increase. Concomitant admin istration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and quetiapine is contra indicated as it may increase quetiapin e-related toxicity. Benzodiazepines  Midazolam Oral Midazolam:  AUC: ↑ 13-fold  Parenteral Midazolam:  AUC: ↑ 4-fold  
 Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir  Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan must not be co-administered with oral midazolam (see section 4.3), whereas caution should be used with co-administration of L opinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and parenteral midazolam. If Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is co-administered with parenteral midazolam, it should be done in an intensive care un it (ICU) or similar setting which ensure s close clinical monitoring and app ropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage adjustmen t for midazolam should be consider ed especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered.  Beta 2-adrenoceptor a gonist (lon g actin g)Salmeterol Salmeterol:  Concentrations are expected to increase due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  The combination may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations and sinus tachycardia. Therefore, concomita nt administration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with salmeterol is not recommended (see section 4.4).  Calcium channel blockers  Felodipine, Nifedipine, and Nicardipine  Felodipine, Nifedipine, Nicardipine:  Concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  Clinical monitoring o f therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when these medicines are concomitantly administered with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan. 
23 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Corticosteroids  Dexamethasone Lopinavir:  Concentrations may be decreased due to CYP3A induction by dexamethasone.  Clinical monitoring of antiviral efficacy is recommended when these medicines are concomitantly administered with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan. Inhaled, injectable or intranasal fluticasone propionate, budesonide, triamcinolone  Fluticasone propionate, 50 μg intranasal 4 times daily:  Plasma concentrations ↑  Cortisol levels ↓ 86%  Greater effects may be expected when fluticasone propionate is inhaled. Systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression have been reported in patients receiving ritonavir and inhaled or intranasally administered flutic asone propionate; this could also occur with other corticosteroids me tabolised via the P450 3A pathway e.g. budesonide and triamcinolone. Consequently, concomitant admin istration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and these glucocorticoids is not recommended unless the poten tial benefit of treatment outweighs the risk of systemic corticoste roid effects (see section 4.4). A dose reduction of the glucocorticoid should be considered with close monitori ng of local and systemic effects o r a switch to a glucocorticoid, which is not a substrate for CYP3A4 (e.g. beclomethasone). Moreover, in case of withdrawal of glucocorticoids progressive dose reduction may have to be performed over a longer period.  
24 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Phosphodiesterase (PDE5) inhibitors  Avanafil  (ritonavir 600 mg BID)  Avanafil:  AUC: ↑ 13-fold  Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  The use of avanafil with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Tadalafil Tadalafil:  AUC: ↑ 2-fold  Due to CYP3A4 inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.   For the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension: Co-administration of L opinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with sildenafil is contraindicated (see section 4.3). Co-administration of L opinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with tadalafil is not recommended.  For erectile dysfunction:  Particular caution must be used when prescribing sildenaf il or tadalafil in patients receiving Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with increased monitoring for adverse events including hypotension, syncope, visual changes and prolonged erection (see section 4.4).  When co-administered with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan, sildenafil doses must not exceed 25 mg in 
48 hours and tadalafil doses must not exceed 10 mg every 72 hours.  Sildenafil Sildenafil:  AUC: ↑ 11-fold  Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  Vardenafil V ardenafil:  AUC: ↑ 49-fold  Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. The use of vardenafil with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Ergot alkaloids  Dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, ergotamine, methylergonovine  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Concomitant admin istration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and ergot alkaloids are contra indicated as it may lead to acute ergot toxicity, including vasospasm and ischaemia (see section 
4.3). GI motility agent Cisapride  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  Concomitant admin istration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and cisapride is contrai ndicated as it may increase the risk of serious arrhythmias from this agent (see section 4.3).   
25 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 HCV direct actin g antivirals Elbasvir/grazoprevir (50/200 mg QD)   Elbasvir: AUC: ↑ 2.71-fold Cmax: ↑ 1.87-fold C24: ↑ 3.58-fold 
 Grazoprevir: AUC: ↑ 11.86-fold Cmax: ↑ 6.31-fold C24: ↑ 20.70-fold 
 (combinations of mechanisms including CYP3 A inhibition) 
 Lopinavir: ↔  Concomitant admin istration of elbasvir/grazo previr with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Serum concentrations may be increased due to P-glycoprotein, BCRP and OATP1B inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Concomitant admin istration of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir and Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is not recommended due to an increased risk of ALT elevations associated with increased glecaprevir exposure. Ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir + dasabuvir 
 (25/150/100 mg QD + 
400 mg BID)  Lopinavir/ritonavir  
400/100 mg BID  Ombitasvir: ↔  
 Paritaprevir: AUC: ↑ 2.17-fold Cmax: ↑ 2.04-fold Ctrough: ↑ 2.36-fold 
 (inhibition of CYP3A/efflux transporters) 
 Dasabuvir: ↔ 
 Lopinavir: ↔  Co-administration is  contraindicated. 
 Lopinavir/ritonavir 800/200 mg QD was administered with ombitasvir/paritaprev ir/ritonavir with or without dasabuvir.  The effect on DAAs and lopinavir was similar to that observed when l opinavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg BID was administered (see section 4.3).  Ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ ritonavir 
 (25/150/100 mg QD) 
 Lopinavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg BID  Ombitasvir: ↔ 
 Paritaprevir: AUC: ↑ 6.10-fold Cmax: ↑ 4.76-fold Ctrough: ↑ 12.33-fold 
 (inhibition of CYP3A/efflux transporters) 
 Lopinavir: ↔   Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/ voxilaprevir Serum concentrations of sofosbuvir, velpatasvir and voxilaprevir may be increased due to P-glycoprotein, BCRP and OATP1B1/3 inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. However, only the increase in voxilaprevir exposure is considered clinically relevant.It is not recommended to co administer Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan and sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/ voxilaprevir.   
26 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Herbal products  St John’s wort  (Hypericum perforatum)  Lopinavir:  Concentrations may be reduced due to induction of CYP3A by the herbal preparation St John’s wort.  Herbal preparations  containing St John’s wort must not be combined with lopinavir and  ritonavir. If a patient is already taking St John’s wort, stop St John’s wort and if possible check viral levels. Lopinavir and ritonavir levels may increase on stopping St John’s wort. The dose of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan may need adjusting. The inducing effect may persist for at least 2 weeks after cessation of treatment with St John’s wort (see section 4.3). Therefore, Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan can be started safely 2 weeks after cessation of St John's wort. Immunosuppressants  Cyclosporin, Sirolimus (rapamycin), and Tacrolimus  Cyclosporin, Sirolimus (rapamycin), Tacrolimus:  Concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir.  More frequent therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended until p lasma levels of these products hav e been stabilised. Lipid lowering agents  Lovastatin and Simvastatin  Lovastatin, Simvastatin:  Markedly increased plasma concentrations due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Since increased concentrations of HMG-Co 
 A reductase inhibitors may cause myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, th e combination of these agents with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Lipid-modifying agents  Lomitapide CYP3A4 inhibitors increase the exposure of lomitapide, with strong inhibitors increasing exposure approximately 27-fold. Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir, concentrations of lomitapide are expec ted to increase. Concomitant use of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with lomitapide is cont raindicated (see prescribing information for lomitapide) (see section 4.3). Atorvastatin A torvastatin:  AUC: ↑ 5.9 -fold  Cmax: ↑ 4.7-fold  Due to CYP3A inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. The combination of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with atorvastatin is not recommended. If the use of atorvasta tin is considered strictly necessary, the lowest possible dose of atorvastatin should be administered with careful safety monitoring (see section 4.4).   
27 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Rosuvastatin, 20 mg QD Rosuvastatin:  AUC: ↑ 2-fold  Cmax: ↑ 5-fold  While rosuvasta tin is poorly metabolised by CYP3A4, an increase of its plasma conc entrations was observed. The mechanism of this interaction may resu lt from inhibition of transport proteins.  Caution should be exercised and reduced doses should be considered when Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan is co-administered with  rosuvastatin (see section 4.4).  Fluvastatin or Pravastatin F luvastatin, Pravastatin:  No clinical relev ant interaction expected.  Pravastatin is no t metabolised by CYP450.  Fluvastatin is par tially metabolised by CYP2C9. If treatment with an HMG-Co 
 A reductase inhibitor is indicated, fluvastatin or pravastatin is recommended. Opioids  Buprenorphine, 16 mg QD Buprenor phine: ↔  No dose adjustment ne cessary. Methadone Methadone: ↓ Monitori ng plasma concentrations of methadone is recommended.Oral contraceptives  Ethinyl Oestradiol Ethinyl Oestradiol: ↓ In case of co-administration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with contraceptives containing ethinyl oestradiol (whatever the contraceptive formulation e.g. o ral or patch), additional methods of contraception must be used. Smoking cessation aids  Bupropion Buproprion a nd its active metabolite, hydroxybupropion:  AUC and C max ↓ ~50%  This effect may be due to induction of bupropion metabolism. If the co-administration of Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with bupropion is judged unavoidable, this should be done under close clinical monitoring for bupropion efficacy, without exceedin g the recommended dosage, despite the observed induction. Thyroid hormone replacement therap y Levothyroxine Post marketing cases have been reported indicating a potential interaction between ritonavir containing products and levothyroxine. Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) should be monito red in patients treated with levothyro xine at least the first month after starting and/or ending lopinavir/rito navir treatment.  
28 Co-administered drug by therapeutic area  
 Effects on drug levels  Geometric Mean Change (%) in AUC, C max, C min  Mechanism of interaction  Clinical recommendation concerning co-administration with Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan  
 Vasodilatin g agents Bosentan Lopinavir - ritonavir:  Lopinavir/ritonavir plasma concentrations may decrease due to CYP3A4 induction by bosentan.  
 Bosentan:  AUC: ↑ 5-fold  Cmax: ↑ 6-fold  Initially, bosentan C min: ↑ by approximately 48-fold.  Due to CYP3A4 inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Caution should be exercised in administering Lopinavir/Ritonavir Mylan with bosentan.   When Lopinavir/Rito navir Mylan is administered con comitantly with bosentan, the efficacy of the HIV therapy should b e monitored and patients should be closely observed for bosentan toxicity, especially during the first week of co-administration.  Riociguat Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A and P-gp inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir The co-administra tion of riociguat with Lopinavir/Ritona vir Mylan is not recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to riociguat Sm 
 PC). Other medicinal products  Based on known metabolic profile s, clinically significant inter actions are not expected between Lopinavir/Ritonavir M ylan and dapsone, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, azithrom ycin or fluconazole. 
 
