4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Methylxant hines Methylxanthines (e.g., caffeine and theophylline) are non -specific adenosine receptor antagonists and may interfere with the vasodilation activity of regadenoson (see section 5.1).  Patients should avoid consumption of any medicinal products containin g methylxanthines as well as any medicinal products containing theophylline for at least 12 hours before regadenoson  administration (see section 4.2).  
 Dipyridamole  Dipyridamole increases blood adenosine levels and the response to regadenoson may be altere d when blood adenosine levels are increased.  When possible, dipyridamole should be withheld for at least two days prior to regadenoson  administration (see section 4.2).  
 Cardioactive medicinal products  In clinical studies, regadenoson  was administered to p atients taking other cardioactive medicinal products (i.e., β -blockers, calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors, nitrates, cardiac glycosides, and angiotensin receptor blockers) without apparent effects on the safety or efficacy profile of regadenoson . 
 Other interactions  Regadenoson does not inhibit the metabolism of substrates for CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4 in human liver microsomes, indicating that it is unlikely to alter the pharmacokinetics of medicinal products metabolised by these cytochrome P450 enzymes.  
 Regadenoson does not significantly inhibit the transporters OAT1, OAT3, OCT1, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, MATE1, MATE2 -K, BCRP, P -gp, BSEP, ENT 1 or ENT2 at 1 µM. The data are insufficient to conclude about the risk of interactions at  the level of these transporters given that a single concentration was evaluated in most instances.  
 Regadenoson may have a modest inhibitory effect on the active renal transporter, OCT2, and has been found to be likely substrate for BCRP, ENT1 or ENT2 me diated transport. However, given the proposed duration of use, the effects of the drug transporters are unlikely to be clinically relevant.  
 
