4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Medicinal products with p 
 H -dependent absorption pharmacokinetics 
 SOMAC Control  may reduce the absorption of active substances whose bioavailability is dependent on the gastric p 
 H (e.g., ketoconazole).  HIV protease inhibitors 
 Co-administration of pantoprazole is contraindicated with HIV protease inhibitors for which absorption is dependent on acidic intragastric p 
 H such as atazanavir, nelfinavir; due to significant reduction in their bioavailability (see section 4.3). 
 Coumarin anticoagulants (phenprocoumon or warfarin) 
 Although no interaction during concomitant administration of phenprocoumon or warfarin has been observed in clinical pharmacokinetic studies, a few isolated cases of changes in International Normalised Ratio (INR) have been reported during concomitant trea tment in the post -marketing period. Therefore, in patients treated with coumarin anticoagulants (e.g., phenprocoumon or warfarin), monitoring of prothrombin time/INR is recommended after initiation, termination or during irregular use of pantoprazole.  
 Methotrexate 
 Concomitant use of high- dose methotrexate (e.g ., 300 mg) and proton pump inhibitors has been reported to increase methotrexate levels in some patients. Therefore , in settings where high -dose methotrexate is used, for example cancer and psorias is, a temporary withdrawal of pantoprazole may need to be considered.  
 Other interactions studies  
 Pantoprazole is metabolised in the liver via the cytochrome P450 enzyme system. Interaction studies with carbamazepine, caffeine, diazepam, diclofenac, digox in, ethanol, glibenclamide, metoprolol, naproxen, nifedipine, phenytoin, piroxicam, theophylline and an oral contraceptive containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl oestradiol did not reveal clinically significant interactions. However, an interaction of pantoprazole with other substances which are metabolised by the same enzyme system cannot be excluded.   
 There were no interactions with concomitantly administered antacids.  
 Drug -laboratory test interactions  
 There have been reports of false- positive results in some urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving pantoprazole. A n alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results.  
