4.5  Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Use with other vaccines  
 6 Synflorix can be given concomitantly with any of the following monovalent or combination vaccines 
[including DTPa -HBV- IPV/Hib and DTPw -HBV/Hib]: diphtheria -tetanus -acellular pertussis vaccine (DTPa), hepatitis B vaccine (HBV), inactivated polio vaccine (IPV), Haemophilus influenzae  type b vaccine (Hib), diphtheria -tetanus -whole cell pertussis vaccine (DTPw), measles- mumps -rubella vaccine (MMR), varicella vaccine (V), meningococcal serogroup C conjugate vaccine (CRM 197 and TT conjug ates), meningococcal serogroups A, C, W -135 and Y conjugate vaccine (TT conjugate), oral polio vaccine (OPV) and oral rotavirus vaccine. Different injectable vaccines should always be given at different injection sites.  
 Clinical studies demonstrated that the immune responses and the safety profiles of the co- administered vaccines were unaffected, with the exception of the inactivated poliovirus type 2 response, for which inconsistent results were observed across studies (seroprotection ranging from 78% to 100%) . In addition when the meningococcal serogroups A, C, W -135 and Y vaccine (TT conjugate) was co-administered with a booster dose of Synflorix during the second year of life in children primed with 3 doses of Synflorix, lower antibody geometric mean co ncentration (GMC) and opsonophagocytic assay geometric mean titre (OPA GMT) were observed for one pneumococcal serotype (18 C). There was no impact of co -administration on the other nine pneumococcal serotypes. E nhancement of antibody response to Hib -TT co njugate, diphtheria and tetanus antigens was observed. The clinical relevance of the above observations is unknown.  
 Use with systemic immunosuppressive medicinal products  
 As with other vaccines, it may be expected that in patients receiving immunosuppres sive treatment an adequate response may not be elicited.  
 Use with prophylactic administration of antipyretics  
 Clinical data suggest th at prophylactic administration  of paracetamol , used to reduce the rate of possible post -vaccination febrile reactions , might reduce the immune response to Synflorix. However, the clinical relevance of this observation is not known.  See section 4.4.  
 
