4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Dialysis  
 Interaction studies have not been conducted in patients on dialysis.  Ciprofloxacin  
 In interaction studies in healthy volunteers, sevelamer hydrochloride, which contains the same active moiety as sevelamer carbonate , decreased the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by approximately 50% when co-administered with sevelamer hydrochloride in a single dose study. Consequently, sevelamer carbonate should not be taken simultaneously with ciprofloxacin. 
 Ciclosporin, mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus in transplant patients 
 Reduced levels of ciclosporin, mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus  have been reported in transplant patients when co -administered with sevelamer hydrochloride without any clinical consequences (e.g., graft rejection). The possibility of an interaction cannot be excluded and a close monitoring of blood concentrations of ciclosporin, mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus should be considered during the use of combination and after its withdrawal.  
 Levothyroxine 
 Very rare cases of hypothyroidism have been reported in patients co -administered with sevelamer hydrochloride, which contains the same active moiety as sevelamer carbonate,  and levothyroxine. Closer monitoring of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels is therefore recommended in patients receiving sevelamer carbonate and levothyroxine.  
 Anti-arrhythmics and anti -seizure medicinal products 
 Patients taking anti -arrhythmic medicinal products for the control of arrhythmias and anti- seizure medicinal products for the control of seizure disorders were excluded fro m clinical trials. Therefore, possible reduction in absorption cannot be excluded. The anti-arrhythmic medical product should be taken at least one hour before or three hours after Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop , and blood monitoring can be considered.  6  Proton pump inhibitors  
 During post -marketing experience, very rare cases of increased phosphate levels have been reported in patients taking proton pump inhibitors co- administered with sevelamer c arbonate. Caution should be exercised when prescribing PPI to patients concomitantly treated  with Sevelamer carbonate Winthrop . The phosphate serum level should be monitored and the sevelamer carbonate dosage adjusted consequently.  
 Bioavailability  
 Sevelamer carbonate is  not absorbed and may affect the bioavailability of other medicinal products. When administering any medicinal product where a reduction in the bioavailability could have a clinically significant effect on safety or efficacy, the medicinal product should be administered at least one hour before or three  hours after sevelamer carbonate, or the physician should consider monitoring blood levels. 
 Digoxin, warfarin, enalapril or metoprolol 
  In interaction studies in healthy volunteers, sevelamer hydrochloride, which contains the same active moiety as sevelamer carbonate, had no effect on the bioavailability of digoxin, warfarin, enalapril or metoprolol.  
