4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 In all clinical trials individuals who had received immunoglobulin or blood- derived products within 3 months prior to the first vaccine dose were excluded.  
 Use with other vaccines  
 Cervarix may be administered concomitantly with a combined booster vaccine containing diphtheria (d), tetanus (T) and pertussis [acellular] (pa) with or without inactivated poliomyelitis (IPV), (d 
 Tpa, d 
 Tpa -IPV vaccines), with no clinically relevant interference with antibody response to any of the components of either vac cine. The sequential administration of combined d 
 Tpa -IPV followed by Cervarix one month later tended to elicit lower anti -HPV- 16 and anti -HPV- 18 GMTs as compared to Cervarix alone. The clinical relevance of this observation is not known.  Cervarix may also be administered concomitantly with meningococcal serogroups A, C, W -135, Y tetanus toxoid conjugate vaccine (Men 
 ACWY -TT); with combined hepatitis A (inactivated) and hepatitis B (r 
 DNA) vaccine ( Twinrix ) or with  hepatitis B (r 
 DNA) vaccine ( Engerix B ). 5 Administration of Cervarix at the same time as Twinrix has shown no clinically relevant interference in the antibody response to the HPV and hepatitis A antigens. Anti -HBs geometric mean antibody concentrations were significantly lower on co- administration , but the clinical relevance of this observation is not known since the seroprotection rates remain unaffected. The proportion of subjects reaching anti -HBs ≥ 10m 
 IU/ml was 98.3% for concomitant vaccination and 100% for Twinrix given alone. Similar results were observed when Cervarix was given concomitantly with Engerix B with 
97.9% of subjects reaching anti -HBs ≥  10m 
 IU/ml compared to 100% for Engerix  B given alone . 
 If Cervarix is to be given at the same time as another injectable vaccine, the vaccines should always be administered at different injection sites.  
 Use with hormonal contraceptive  
 In clinical studies, approximately 60% of women who received Cervarix used hormonal contraceptives. There is no evidence that the use of hormonal contrac eptives has an impact on the efficacy of Cervarix.  
 Use with systemic immunosuppressive medicinal products  
 See section 4.4 . 
 