4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent 
 Ritonavir has a high affinity for several cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms and may inhibit oxidation with the following ranked order: CYP3A4 > CYP2D6. Co- administration of ritonavir and medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A may result in increase d plasma concentrations of the other medicinal product, which could increase or prolong its therapeutic and adverse effects. For selected medicinal products (e.g. alprazolam) the inhibitory effects of ritonavir on CYP3A4 may decrease over time. Ritonavir a lso has a high affinity for P -glycoprotein and may inhibit this transporter. The inhibitory effect of ritonavir (with or without other protease inhibitors) on P- gp activity may decrease over time (e.g. digoxin and fexofenadine -see table “Ritonavir effects on non- antiretroviral medicinal products” below). Ritonavir may induce glucuronidation and oxidation by CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 thereby increasing the biotransformation of some medicinal products metabolised by these pathways, and may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could decease or shorten their therapeutic effect. 
 Important information regarding medicinal product interactions when ritonavir is used as a pharmacokinetic enhancer is also contained in the Summary of Product Characteristics of the co-administered protease inhibitor.  
 Medicinal products that affect ritonavir levels  
 Serum levels of ritonavir can be reduced by concomitant use of herbal preparations containing St John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum). This is due to the induction of medicinal product metabolising enzymes by St John’s wort. Herbal preparations containing St John’s wort must not be used in combination with ritonavir. If a patient is already taking St John’s wort, St John’s wort should be stopped and if possible check viral levels. Ritonavir levels may increase on stopping St John’s wort. The dose of ritonavir may need adjusting. The inducing effect may persist for at least 2  weeks after cessation of treatment with St John’s wort (see section 4.3).  
 Serum levels of ritonavir may be affected by select co -administered medicinal products (e.g. delavirdine, efavirenz, phenytoin and rifampicin). These interactions are noted in the medicinal product interaction tables below.  
 Medicinal products that are affected by the use of ritonavir  
 Interactions between ritonavir and protease inhibitors, antiretroviral agents other than protease inhibitors and other non- antiretroviral medicinal products are listed in the tables below.  This list is not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive.  Individual Sm 
 PCs should be consulted.  13 Table 3. Medicinal product interactions – Ritonavir with protease inhibitors  
 Co-administered medicinal product  Dose of co-administered medicinal product (mg)  Dose of ritonavir  (mg)  Medicinal product assessed  AUC  Cmin Amprenavir  600 q12 h 100 q12 h Amprenavir2 ↑ 64%  ↑ 5 fold 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of amprenavir as a result of CYP3A4 inhibition. Clinical studies  confirmed the safety and efficacy of 600  mg amprenavir twice daily with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily. Ritonavir oral solution should not be co-administered with amprenavir oral solution to children due to the risk of toxicity from excipients in the two formulations. For further information, physicians should refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for amprenavir.  Atazanavir  300 q24 h 100 q24 h Atazanavir  Atazanavir1 ↑ 86%  
↑ 2 fold ↑ 11 fold 
↑ 3-7 fold 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of atazanavir as a result of CYP3A4 inhibition. Clinical studies  confirmed the safety and efficacy of 300  mg atazanavir once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily in treatment experienced patients. For further information, physicians should refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for atazanavir.  Darunavir  600, single  100 q12 h Darunavir  ↑ 14 fold  
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of darunavir as a result of CYP3A inhibition. Darunavir must be given with ritonavir to ensure its therapeutic effect. Ritonavir doses higher than 100 mg twice daily have not been studied with darunavir. For further information, refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for darunavir.  Fosamprenavir  700 q12 h 100 q12 h Amprenavir  ↑ 2.4  fold ↑ 11 fold 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of amprenavir (from fosamprenavir) as a result of  CYP3A4 inhibition. Fosamprenavir must be given with ritonavir to ensure its therapeutic effect. Clinical studies  confirmed the safety and efficacy of fosamprenavir 
700 mg twice daily with ritonavir 100  mg twice daily. Ritonavir doses higher than 
100 mg twice daily have not been studied with fosamprenavir. For further information, physicians should refer to the Summa ry of Product Characteristics for fosamprenavir.  Indinavir  800 q12 h 100 q12 h Indinavir3 Ritonavir  ↑ 178%  
↑ 72%  ND ND 
 400 q12 h 400 q12 h Indinavir3 Ritonavir  ↔ 
↔ ↑ 4 fold 
↔ 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of indinavir as a result of  CYP3A4 inhibition. Appropriate doses for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established.  Minimal benefit of ritonavir -mediated pharmacokinetic enhancement is achieved with doses higher than 100 mg twice daily. In cases of co -administration of ritonavir (100 mg twice daily) and indinavir (800 mg twice daily) caution is warranted as the risk of nephrolithiasis may be increased.  Nelfinavir  1,250  q12 h 
750, single  100 q12 h 
500 q12 h Nelfinavir  Nelfinavir  Ritonavir  ↑ 20 to 39%  
↑ 152%  
↔ ND ND 
↔ 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of nelfinavir as a result of  CYP3A4 inhibition. Appropriate doses for this combination, with respect to efficacy and safety, have not been established.  Minimal benefit of ritonavir -mediated pharmacokinetic enhancement is achieved with doses higher than 100  mg twice daily.  14 Co-administered medicinal product  Dose of co-administered medicinal product (mg)  Dose of ritonavir  (mg)  Medicinal product assessed  AUC  Cmin Saquinavir  1,000  q12 h 100 q12 h Saquinavir4 Ritonavir  ↑ 15-fold 
↔ ↑ 5-fold 
↔ 
 400 q12 h 400 q12 h Saquinavir4 Ritonavir  ↑ 17-fold 
↔ ND 
↔ 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of saquinavir as a result of  CYP3A4 inhibition. Saquinavir should only be given in combination with ritonavir. Ritonavir  100 mg twice daily with saquinavir 1, 000 mg twice daily provides saquinavir systemic exposure over 
24 hours similar to  or greater than those achieved with saquinavir 1, 200 mg three times daily without ritonavir.  
 In a clinical study investigating the interaction of rifampicin 600  mg once daily and saquinavir 1 ,000 mg with ritonavir 100  mg twice daily in healthy volunteers, severe hepatocellular toxicity with transaminase elevations up to > 20 -fold the upper limit of normal after 1 to 5 days of co -administration was noted. Due to the risk of severe hepatotoxicity, saquinavir/ritonavir should not be given together with rifampicin.  
 For further information, physicians should refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for saquinavir.  Tipranavir  500 q12 h 200 q12 h Tipranavir  Ritonavir  ↑ 11 fold 
↓ 40%  ↑ 29 fold ND 
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of tipranavir as a result of CYP3A inhibition. Tipranavir must be given with low dose ritonavir to ensure its therapeutic effect. Doses of ritonavir less than 200 mg twice daily should not be used with tipranavir as the y might alter the efficacy of the combination. For further information, physicians should refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for tipranavir.  
 ND: Not determined.  
1 Based on cross -study comparison to 400 mg atazanavir once daily alone.  
2 Based on cross -study comparison to 1,200 mg amprenavir twice daily alone.  
3 Based on cross -study comparison to 800 mg indinavir three times daily alone.  
4 Based on cross -study comparison to 600  mg saquinavir three times daily alone.  
 Table 4. Medicinal product interactions – Ritonavir with antiretroviral agents other than protease inhibitors  
 Co-administered medicinal product  Dose of co-administered medicinal product (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Medicinal product assessed  AUC  Cmin Didanosine  200 q12 h 600 q12 h 2 h later Didanosine  ↓ 13%  ↔ 
 As ritonavir is recommended to be taken with food and didanosine  should be taken on an empty stomach, dosing should be separated by 2.5 h. Dose alterations should not be necessary.  Delavirdine  400 q8 h 600 q12 h Delavirdine1 Ritonavir  ↔ 
↑ 50%  ↔ 
↑ 75%  
 Based on comparison to historical data, the pharmacokinetics of delavirdine did not appear to be affected by ritonavir. When used in combination with delavirdine, dose reduction of ritonavir may be considered.  Efavirenz  600 q24 h 500 q12 h Efavirenz  Ritonavir  ↑ 21%  
↑ 17%   
 A higher frequency of adverse reactions (e.g., dizziness, nausea, paraesthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes) have been observed when efavirenz is co-administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent.  Maraviroc  100 q12 h 100 q12 h Maraviroc  ↑ 161%  ↑ 28%  
 Ritonavir increases the serum levels of maraviroc as a result of  CYP3A inhibition. Maraviroc may be given with ritonavir to increase the maraviroc exposure. For further information, refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for maraviroc.  15 Co-administered medicinal product  Dose of co-administered medicinal product (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Medicinal product assessed  AUC  Cmin Nevirapine  200 q12 h 600 q12 h Nevirapine  Ritonavir  ↔ 
↔ ↔ 
↔ 
 Co-administration of ritonavir with nevirapine does not lead to clinically relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of either nevirapine or ritonavir.  Raltegravir  400 single  100 q12 h Raltegravir  ↓ 16%  ↓ 1%  
 Co-administration of ritonavir and raltegravir results in a minor reduction in raltegravir levels.  Zidovudine  200 q8 h 300 q6 h Zidovudine  ↓ 25%  ND 
 Ritonavir may induce the glucuronidation of zidovudine, resulting in slightly decreased levels of zidovudine. Dose alterations should not be necessary.  
 ND: Not determined  
1 Based on parallel group comparison.  
 Table 5. R itonavir effects on non -antiretroviral co- administered medicinal products  
 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax Alpha 1-Adrenoreceptor antagonist  Alfuzosin  Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of alfuzosin and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Amphetamine derivatives      Amphetamine  Ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent is likely to inhibit CYP2D6 and as a result is expected to increase concentrations of amphetamine and its derivatives. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when these medicinal products are concomitantly administered with antiretroviral doses of ritonavir (see section 4.4).  
 Analgesics      Buprenorphine  16 q24 h 100 q12 h ↑ 57%  ↑ 77%  Norbuprenorphine    ↑ 33%  ↑ 108%  Glucuronide metabolites    ↔ ↔ 
 The increases of plasma levels of buprenorphine and its active metabolite did not lead to clinically significant pharmacodynamic changes in a population of opioid tolerant patients. Adjustment to the dose of buprenorphine or ritonavir may therefore not be necessary when the two a re dosed together. When ritonavir is used in combination with another protease inhibitor and buprenorphine, the SPC of the co-administered protease inhibitor should be reviewed for specific dosing information.  
 Pethidine, propoxyphene  Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of norpethidine and propoxyphene and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Fentanyl  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of fentanyl. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects (including respiratory depression) is recommended when fentanyl is concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  
 16 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax Methadone1 5, single dose  500 q12 h, ↓ 36%  ↓ 38%  
 Increased methadone dose may be necessary when concomitantly administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer due to induction of glucuronidation. Dose adjustment should be considered based on the patient’s clinical response to methadone therapy.  
 Morphine  Morphine levels may be decreased due to induction of glucuronidation by co- administered ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  
 Antianginal   Ranolazine  Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of ranola zine are expected to increase. The concomitant administration with ranolazine is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Antiarrhythmics      Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, encainide, flecainide, propafenone, quinidine  Ritonavir, co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, encainide, flecainide, propafenone, and quinidine and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Digoxin  0.5 single IV dose  300 q12 h, 
3 days ↑ 86%  ND 
 0.4 single oral dose  200 q12 h, 
13 days ↑ 22%  ↔ 
 This interaction may be due to modification of P -glycoprotein mediated digoxin efflux by ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. Increased digoxin levels observed in patients receiving ritonavir may lessen over time as induction develops (see section 4.4).  
 Antiasthmatic      Theophylline1 3 mg/kg q8  h 500 q12 h ↓ 43%  ↓ 32%  
 An increased dose of theophyline may be required when co-administered with ritonavir, due to induction of CYP1A2.  
 Anticancer agents and kinase inhibitors  Afatinib  20 mg, single dose  200 q12 h/1 h before  ↑ 48%  ↑ 39%  
 40 mg, single dose  200 q12 h/co-administered  ↑ 19%  ↑ 4%  
 40 mg, single dose  200 q12 h/6 h after ↑ 11%  ↑ 5%  
 Serum concentrations may be increased due to Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) and acute P -gp inhibition by ritonavir. The extent of increase in AUC and C max depends on the timing of ritonavir administration. Caution should be exercised in administering afatinib with ritonavir (refer to the afatinib Sm 
 PC). Monitor for ADRs related to afatinib.  Abemaciclib  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A4 inhibition by ritonavir.  
 Co-administration of abemaciclib and ritonavir  should be avoided.  If this co -administration is judged unavoidable, refer to the abemaciclib Sm 
 PC for dose adjustment recommendations.  Monitor for ADRs related to abemaciclib.  
 17 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax Apalutamide  Apalutamide is a moderate to strong CYP3A4 inducer and this may lead to a decreased exposure of ritonavir and potential loss of virologic response.  In addition, serum concentrations may be increased when co-administered with ritonavir resulting in the pot ential for serious adverse events including seizure.   
 Concomitant use of ritonavir with apalutamide is not recommended.  
 Ceritinib  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A and P -gp inhibition by ritonavir. Caution should be exercised in administering ceritinib with ritonavir. Refer to the ceritinib Sm 
 PC for dose adjustment recommendations. Monitor for ADRs related to ceritin ib. 
 Dasatinib, nilotinib, vincristine, vinblastine  Serum concentrations may be increased when co -administered with ritonavir resulting in the potential for increased incidence of adverse reactions.  
 Encorafenib  Serum concentrations may be increased when co -administered with ritonavir which may increase the risk of toxicity, including the risk of serious adverse events such as QT interval prolongation.  Co-administration of encorafenib and ritonavir should be avoi ded.  If the benefit is considered to outweigh the risk and ritonavir must be used, patients should be carefully monitored for safety.  
 Fostamatinib  Co-administration of fostamatinib with ritonavir may increase fostamatinib metabolite R406 exposure resulting in dose -related adverse events such as hepatotoxicity, neutropenia, hypertension, or diarrhoea. Refer to the fostamatinib Sm 
 PC for dose reduction recommendations if such events occur.  
 Ibrutinib  Serum concentrations of ibrutinib may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, resulting in increased risk for toxicity including risk of tumor lysis syndrome. Co- administration of ibrutinib and ritonavir should be avoided. If the benefit is cons idered to outweigh the risk and ritonavir must be used, reduce the ibrutinib dose to 140 mg and monitor patient closely for toxicity.  
 Neratinib  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A4 inhibition by ritonavir.  
 Concomitant use of neratinib with ritonavir  is contraindicated due to serious and/or life threatening potential reactions including hepatotoxicity (see section 4.3).  
 Venetoclax  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, resulting in increased risk of tumour  lysis syndrome at the dose initiation and during the ramp- up phase (see section 4.3 and refer to the venetoclax Sm 
 PC).  
 For patients who have completed the ramp -up phase and are on a steady daily dose of venetoclax, reduce the venetoclax dose by at least 75% when used with strong CYP3A inhibitors (refer to the venetoclax Sm 
 PC for dosing instructions).  
 18 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax Anticoagulants      Dabigatran etexilate  Edoxaban  Serum concentrations may be increased due to P -gp inhibition by ritonavir. Clinical monitoring and/or dose reduction of the direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC) should be considered when a DOAC transported by P -gp but not metabolised by CYP3A4, including dabigatran etexilate and edoxaban, is co- administered with ritonavir.  
 Rivaroxaban  10, single dose  600 q12 h ↑ 153%  ↑ 55%  
 Inhibition of CYP3A and P -gp lead  to increased plasma levels and pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban which may lead to an increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of ritonavir is not recommended in patients receiving rivaroxaban.  
 Vorapaxar  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir. The co -administration of vorapaxar with ritonavir is not recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to the vorapaxar Sm 
 PC).  
 Warfarin  5, single dose  400 q12 h   S-Warfarin    ↑ 9%  ↓ 9%  R-Warfarin    ↑ 33%  ↔ 
 Induction of CYP1A2 and CYP2C9 lead to decreased levels of R-warfarin while little pharmacokinetic effect is noted on S -warfarin when co -administered with ritonavir. Decreased R -warfarin levels may lead to reduced anticoagulation, therefore it is recommend ed that anticoagulation parameters are monitored when warfarin is co-administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  
 Anticonvulsants      Carbamazepine  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of carbamazepine. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when carbamazepine is concomitantly administered with ritonavir . 
 Divalproex, lamotrigine, phenytoin  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent induces oxidation by CYP2C9 and glucuronidation and as a result is expected to decrease the plasma concentrations of anticonvulsants.  Careful monitoring of serum levels or therapeutic effects is recommended when these medicinal products are concomitantly administered with ritonavir. Phenytoin may decrease serum levels of ritonavir.  
 Antidepressants      Amitriptyline, fluoxetine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline  Ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent is likely to inhibit CYP2D6 and as a result is expected to increase concentrations of imipramine, amitriptyline, nortriptyline, fluoxetine, paroxetine or sertraline. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse e ffects is recommended when these medicinal products are concomitantly administered with antiretroviral doses of ritonavir (see section 4.4).  
 Desipramine  100, single oral dose  500 q12 h ↑ 145%  ↑ 22%  
 The AUC and C max of the 2 -hydroxy metabolite were decreased 15  and 
67%, respectively. Dose reduction of desipramine is recommended when co -administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent.  
 19 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax Trazodone  50, single dose  200 q12 h ↑ 2.4 -fold ↑ 34% 
 An increase in the incidence in trazodone -related adverse reactions was noted when co- administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. If trazodone is co -administered with ritonavir, the combination should be used with caution, initiating trazodone at the lowest dose and monitoring for clinical response and tolerability.  
 Anti -gout treatments      Colchicine  Concentrations of colchicine are expected to increase when co-administered with ritonavir.  Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine and ritonavir (CYP3A4 and P -gp inhibition) in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). Refer to the colchicine prescribing information.  
 Antihistamines      Astemizole, terfenadine  Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of astemizole and terfenadine and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Fexofenadine  Ritonavir may modify P -glycoprotein mediated fexofenadine efflux when dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer resulting in increased concentrations of fexofenadine. Increased fexofenadine levels may lessen over time as induction develops.  
 Loratadine  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of loratadine. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when loratadine is concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  
 Anti -infectives      Fusidic acid  Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of both fusidic acid and ritonavir and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Rifabutin1 150 daily  500 q12 h ↑ 4-fold ↑ 2.5 -fold 
25-O-desacetyl rifabutin metabolite    ↑ 38-fold ↑ 16-fold 
 Due to the large increase in rifabutin AUC, the concomitant use of rifabutin with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent is contraindicated (see section 4.3). The reduction of the rifabutin dose to 150 mg 3  times per week may be indicated for select PIs when co-administered with ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. The Summary of Product Characteristics of the co -administered protease inhibitor should be consulted for specific recommendations.  Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate treatment of tuberculosis in HIV -infected patients.  
 Rifampicin  Although rifampicin may induce metabolism of ritonavir, limited data indicate that when high doses of ritonavir (600 mg twice daily) is co-administered with rifampicin, the additional inducing effect of rifampicin (next to that of ritonavir itself) is small and may have no clinical relevant effect on ritonavir levels in high -dose ritonavir therapy.  The effect of ritonavir on rifampicin is not known.  
 20 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax Voriconazole  200 q12 h 400 q12 h ↓ 82%  ↓ 66%  
 200 q12 h 100 q12 h ↓ 39%  ↓ 24%  
 Concomitant use of ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent and voriconazole is contraindicated due to reduction in voriconazole concentrations (see section 4.3). Co -administration of voriconazole and ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole.  
 Atovaquone  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent induces glucuronidation and as a result is expected to decrease the plasma concentrations of atovaquone. Careful monitoring of serum levels or therapeutic effects is recommended when atovaquone is conc omitantly administered with ritonavir.  
 Bedaquiline  No interaction study is available with ritonavir only. In an interaction study of single -dose bedaquiline and multiple dose lopinavir/ritonavir, the AUC of bedaquiline was increased by 22%. This increase is likely due to ritonavir and a more pronounced eff ect may be observed during prolonged co- administration. Due to the risk of bedaquiline related adverse events, co -administration should be avoided. If the benefit outweighs the risk, co- administration of bedaquiline with ritonavir must be done with caution . More frequent electrocardiogram monitoring and monitoring of transaminases is recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to the bedaquiline Summary of Product Characteristics).  
 Clarithromycin  500 q12 h 200 q8 h ↑ 77%  ↑ 31%  
14-OH clarithromycin metabolite    ↓ 100%  ↓ 99%  
 Due to the large therapeutic window of clarithromycin no dose reduction should be necessary in patients with normal renal function.  Clarithromycin doses greater than 1 g per day should not be co-administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. For patients with renal impairment, a clarithromycin dose reduction should be considered: for patients with creatinine clearance of 30 to 60  ml/min the dose should be reduced by 
50%, for patients with creatinine clearance less than 30  ml/min the dose should be reduced by 75%.  
 Delamanid  No interaction study is available with ritonavir only. In a healthy volunteer drug interaction study of delamanid 100 mg twice daily and lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice daily for 14  days, the exposure of the delamanid metabolite DM -6705 was 30% increa sed. Due to the risk of QTc prolongation associated with DM -6705, if co- administration of delamanid with ritonavir is considered necessary, very frequent ECG monitoring throughout the full delamanid treatment period is recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to the delamanid Summary of Product Characteristics)  
 Erythromycin, itraconazole  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of erythromycin and itraconazole. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recomme nded when erythromycin or itraconazole is used concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  
 21 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax Ketoconazole  200 daily  500 q12 h ↑ 3.4 -fold ↑ 55%  
 Ritonavir inhibits CYP3A -mediated metabolism of ketoconazole. Due to an increased incidence of gastrointestinal and hepatic adverse reactions, a dose reduction of ketoconazole should be considered when co-administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer.  
 Sulfamethoxazole/Trimethoprim2 800/160, single dose  500 q12 h ↓ 20%/↑ 20%  ↔ 
 Dose alteration of sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim during concomitant ritonavir therapy should not be necessary.  
 Antipsychotics/Neuroleptics      Clozapine, pimozide  Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of clozapine or pimozide and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Haloperidol, risperidone, thioridazine  Ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent is likely to inhibit CYP2D6 and as a result is expected to increase concentrations of haloperidol, risperidone and thioridazine. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when these medicinal products are concomitantly administered with antiretroviral doses of ritonavir.  
 Lurasidone  Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of lurasidone are expected to increase. The concomitant administration with lurasidone is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Quetiapine  Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of quetiapine are expected to increase. Concomitant administration of ritonavir and quetiapine is contraindicated as it may increase quetiapine -related toxicity (see section 4.3).  
 
β2-agonist (long acting)      Salmeterol  Ritonavir inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result a pronounced increase in the plasma concentrations of salmeterol is expected. Therefore concomitant use is not recommended.  
 Calcium channel antagonists      Amlodipine, diltiazem, nifedipine  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of calcium channel antagonists. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommend ed when these medicinal products are concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  
 Endothelin antagonists      Bosentan  Co-administration of bosentan and ritonavir may increase steady state bosentan maximum concentrations (C max) and area under the curve (AUC).  
 Riociguat  Serum concentrations may be increased due to CYP3A and P -gp inhibition by ritonavir. The co -administration of riociguat with ritonavir is not recommended (see section 4.4 and refer to riociguat Sm 
 PC).  
 Ergot derivatives      Dihydroergotamine, ergonovine, ergotamine, methylergonovine  Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of ergot derivatives and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 22 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax GI motility agent      Cisapride  Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of cisapride and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 HCV Direct Acting Antiviral   Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir  Serum concentrations may be increased due to P -glycoprotein, BCRP and OATP1B inhibition by ritonavir.  
 Concomitant administration of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir and ritonavir  is not recommended due to an increased risk of ALT elevations associated with increased glecaprevir exposure.  
 HCV protease inhibitor      Simeprevir  200 qd 100 q12 h ↑ 7.2 -fold ↑ 4.7 -fold 
 Ritonavir increases plasma concentrations of simeprevir as a result of CYP3A4 inhibition. It is not recommended to co- administer ritonavir with simeprevir.  
 HMG co -A reductase inhibitors      Atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, simvastatin  HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors which are highly dependent on CYP3A metabolism, such as lovastatin and simvastatin, are expected to have markedly increased plasma concentrations when co -administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. Since increased concentrations of lovastatin and simvastatin may predispose patients to myopathies, including rhabdomyolysis, the combination of these medicinal products with ritonavir is contraindicated (see section 4.3). Atorvastatin is less dependent on CYP3A for metabolism. While rosuvastatin elimination is not dependent on CYP3A, an elevation of rosuvastatin exposure ha s been reported with ritonavir co- administration. The mechanism of this interaction is not clear, but may be the result of transporter inhibition.  When used with ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent, the lowest possible doses of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin should be administered. The metabolism of pravastatin and fluvastatin is not dependent on CYP3A, and inter actions are not expected with ritonavir. If treatment with an HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitor is indicated, pravastatin or fluvastatin is recommended.  
 Hormonal contraceptive      Ethinylestradiol  50 μg, single dose  500 q12 h ↓ 40%  ↓ 32%  
 Due to reductions in ethinylestradiol concentrations, barrier or other non-hormonal methods of contraception should be considered with concomitant ritonavir use when dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer. Ritonavir is likely to change the uterine bleeding profile and reduce the effectiveness of estradi ol-containing contraceptives (see section 4.4).  
 Immunosuppressants      Cyclosporine, tacrolimus, everolimus  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A4 and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of cyclosporine, tacrolimus or everolimus.  Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when these medicinal products are concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  
 23 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax Lipid -modifying agents   Lomitapide  CYP3A4 inhibitors increase the exposure of lomitapide, with strong inhibitors increasing exposure approximately 27- fold.  Due to CYP3A inhibition by ritonavir, concentrations of lomitapide are expected to increase.  Concomitant use of ritonavir with lomitapide is contraindicated (see prescribing information for lomitapide) (see section 4.3).  
 Phosphodiesterase (PDE5) inhibitors  Avanafil  50, single dose  600 q12 h ↑ 13-fold ↑ 2.4 -fold 
 Concomitant use of avanafil with ritonavir is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Sildenafil  100, single dose  500 q12 h ↑ 11-fold ↑ 4-fold 
 Concomitant use of sildenafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer should be with caution and in no instance should sildenafil doses exceed 25  mg in 48 hours (see also se ction 4.4). Concomitant use of sildenafil with ritonavir is contraindicated in pulmonary arterial hypertension patients (see section 4.3).  
 Tadalafil  20, single dose  200 q12 h ↑ 124%  ↔ 
 The concomitant use of tadalafil for the treatment of erectile dysfunction with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer should be with caution at reduced doses of no more than 10 mg tadalafil every 72  hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions (see section 4.4).  
 When tadalafil is used concurrently with ritonavir in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, refer to the tadalafil Summary of Product Characteristics.  
 Vardenafil  5, single dose  600 q12 h ↑ 49-fold ↑ 13-fold 
 Concomitant use of vardenafil with ritonavir is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 24 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax Sedatives/hypnotics      Clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, oral and parenteral midazolam  Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam and flurazepam and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  Midazolam is extensively metabolised by CYP3A4. Co- administration with ritonavir may cause a large increase in the concentration of this benzodiazepine. No medicinal product interaction study has been performed for the co- administration of ritonavir with b enzodiazepines.  Based on data for other CYP3A4 inhibitors, plasma concentrations of midazolam are expected to be significantly higher when midazolam is given orally. Therefore, ritonavir should not be co- administered with orally administered midazolam (see section 4.3), w hereas caution should be used with co- administration of ritonavir and parenteral midazolam. Data from concomitant use of parenteral midazolam with other protease inhibitors suggest a possible 3 –  4 fold increase in midazolam plasma levels. If ritonavir is co -administered with parenteral midazolam, it should be done in an intensive care unit (ICU) or similar setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dose adj ustment for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered.  
 Triazolam  0.125, single dose  200, 4  doses  ↑ > 20  fold ↑ 87%  
 Ritonavir co -administration is likely to result in increased plasma concentrations of triazolam and is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Pethidine  50, oral single dose  500 q12 h ↓ 62%  ↓ 59%  Norpethidine metabolite    ↑ 47%  ↑ 87%  
 The use of pethidine and ritonavir is contraindicated due to the increased concentrations of the metabolite, norpethidine, which has both analgesic and CNS stimulant activity. Elevated norpethidine concentrations may increase the risk of CNS effects (e.g., seizures), see section 4.3.  
 Alprazolam  1, single dose  200 q12 h, 
2 days ↑ 2.5  fold ↔ 
  500 q12 h, 
10 days ↓ 12%  ↓ 16%  
 Alprazolam metabolism was inhibited following the introduction of ritonavir. After ritonavir use for 10  days, no inhibitory effect of ritonavir was observed. Caution is warranted during the first several days when alprazolam is co -administered with ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer, before induction of alprazolam metabolism d evelops.  
 Buspirone  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of buspirone. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when buspirone concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  
 Sleeping agent      Zolpidem  5 200, 4  doses  ↑ 28%  ↑ 22%  
 Zolpidem and ritonavir may be co -administered with careful monitoring for excessive sedative effects.  
 25 Co-administered medicinal products  Dose of co-administered medicinal products (mg)  Dose of ritonavir (mg)  Effect on co-administered medicinal products AUC  Effect on co-administered medicinal products Cmax Smoke cessation      Buproprion  150 100 q12 h ↓ 22%  ↓ 21%  
 150 600 q12 h ↓ 66%  ↓ 62%  
 Bupropion is primarily metabolised by CYP2B6. Concurrent administration of bupropion with repeated doses of ritonavir is expected to decrease bupropion levels. These effects are thought to represent induction of bupropion metabolism. However, because riton avir has also been shown to inhibit CYP2B6 in vitro , the recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded. In contrast to long- term administration of ritonavir, there was no significant interaction with bupropion after short -term administration of low doses of ritonavir (200 mg twice daily for 2 days), suggesting reductions in bupropion concentrations may have onset several days after initiation of ritonavir co -administration.  
 Steroids      Inhaled, injectable or intranasal fluticasone propionate, budesonide, triamcinolone  Systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression (plasma cortisol levels were noted to be decreased 86% in the above study) have been reported in patients receiving ritonavir and inhaled or intranasal fluticasone propionate; similar effects could also occur with other corticosteroids metabolised by CYP3A e.g., budesonide and triamcinolone. Consequently, concomitant administration of ritonavir dosed as an antiretroviral agent or as a pharmacokinetic enhancer and these glucocorticoids is not recommended unless the potential benefit of treatment outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects (see section 4.4). A dose reduction of the glucocorticoid should be considered with close monitoring of local and systemic effect s or a switch to a glucocorticoid, which is not a substrate for CYP3A4 (e.g., beclomethasone). Moreover, in case of withdrawal of glucocorticoids progressive dose reduction may be required over a longer period.  
 Dexamethasone  Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer or as an antiretroviral agent inhibits CYP3A and as a result is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of dexamethasone. Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when dexamethasone is concomitantly administered with ritonavir.  
 Prednisolone  20 200 q12 h ↑ 28%  ↑ 9%  
 Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects is recommended when prednisolone is concomitantly administered with ritonavir. The AUC of the metabolite prednisolone increased by 37 and 28% after 4 and 14  days ritonavir, respectively.  
 Thyroid hormone replacement therapy  Levothyroxine  Post-marketing cases have been reported indicating a potential interaction between ritonavir containing products and levothyroxine. Thyroid- stimulating hormone (TSH) should be monitored in patients treated with levothyroxine at least the first month after starting and/or ending ritonavir treatment.  
 ND: Not determined  
1 Based on a parallel  group comparison  
2 Sulfamethoxazole was co -administered with trimethoprim  
 Cardiac and neurologic events have been reported when ritonavir has been co- administered with disopyramide, mexiletine or nefazodone. The possibility of medicinal product interaction cannot be excluded.  26  In addition to the interactions listed above, as ritonavir is highly protein bound, the possibility of increased therapeutic and toxic effects due to protein binding displacement of concomitant medicinal products should be considered. 
 Ritonavir dosed as a pharmacokinetic enhancer 
 Important information regarding medicinal product interactions when ritonavir is used a pharmacokinetic enhancer is also contained in the Summary of Product Characteristics of the co-administered protease inhibitor.  
 Proton pump inhibitors and H
2-receptor antagonists Proton pump inhibitors and H 2-receptor antagonists (e.g. omeprazole or ranitidine) may reduce concentrations for co -administered protease inhibitors. For specific information regarding the impact of co- administration of acid reducing agents, refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of the co-administered protease inhibitor. Based on interaction studies with the ritonavir boosted protease inhibitors (lopinavir/ritonavir, atazanavir), concurrent administration of omeprazole or ranitidine does not significantly modify ritonavir efficacy as a pharmacokinetic enhancer despite a slight change of exposure (about 6 - 18%).  
 
