4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Medicinal products known to reduce serum calcium  
 Concurrent administration of other med icinal products known to reduce serum calcium and cinacalcet  may result in an increased risk of hypocalcaemia (see section  4.4). Patients receiving cinacalcet  should not be given etelcalcetide (see section  4.4). 
 Effect of other medic inal products  on cinacalcet  
 8 
 Cinacalcet is metabolised in part by the enzyme CYP3A4. Co -administration of 200  mg bid ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, caused an approximate 2 -fold increase in cinacalcet levels. Dose adjustment of cinacalcet  may be required if  a patient recei ving cinacalcet  initiates or discontinues therapy with a strong inhibitor (e.g. ketoconazole, itraconazole, telithromycin, voriconazole, ritonavir) or inducer (e.g. rifampicin) of this enzyme.  
 In vitro data indicate that cinacalcet is in p art metabolised by CYP1A2. Smoking induces CYP1A2; the clearance of cinacalcet was observed to be 36 -38% higher in smokers than non -smokers. The effect of CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g. fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin) on cinacalcet plasma levels has not been studied.  Dose adjustment may be necessary if a patient starts or stops smoking or when concomitant treatment with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors is initiated or discontinued.  
 Calcium carbonate : Co-administration of calcium carbonate (single 1,500 mg dose) did not alter  the pharmacokinetics of cinacalcet.  
 Sevelamer : Co-administration of sevelamer (2,400 mg tid) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of cinacalcet.  
 Pantoprazole : Co-administration of pantoprazole (80 mg od) did not alter the pharmacokinetics of cinacalcet.  
 Effect of cinacalcet on other medic inal products  
 Medicinal products metabolised by the enzyme P450 2D6 (CYP2D6): Cinacalcet is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6. Dose adjustments of concomitant medicinal products may be required when cinacalcet  is administere d with individually titrated, narrow therapeutic index substances that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2D6 (e.g. flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol, desipramine, nortriptyline, clomipramine).  
 Desipramine : Concurrent administration of 90 mg cinacalcet  once daily with 50 mg desipramine, a tricyclic antidepressant metabolised primarily by CYP2D6, significantly increased desipramine exposure 3.6 -fold (90% CI 3.0, 4.4) in CYP2D6 extensive metabolisers.  
 Dextromethorphan : Multiple doses of 50 mg cinacalcet increased the AUC of 30 mg dextromethorphan (metabolised primarily by CYP2D6) by 11 -fold in CYP2D6 extensive metabolisers.  
 Warfarin : Multiple oral doses of cinacalcet did not affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics (as measured by prothrombin time  and clotting factor VII) of warfarin.  
 The lack of effect of cinacalcet on the pharmacokinetics of R - and S -warfarin and the absence of  auto-induction upon multiple dosing in patients indicates that cinacalcet is not an inducer of CYP3A4, CYP1A2 or CYP2C9  in humans.  
 Midazolam : Co-administration of cinacalcet (90 mg) with orally administered midazolam ( 2 mg), a CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 substrate, did not alter the pharmacokinetics of midazolam. These data suggest that cinacalcet would not affect the pharmacokinet ics of those classes of medicines that are metabolised by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, such as certain immunosuppressants, including cyclosporine and tacrolimus.  
 
