4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and othe r forms of interaction 
 The elimination of bedaquiline has not been fully characterised invivo. CYP3A4 is the major CYP isoenzyme involved invitro in the metabolism of bedaquiline and the formation of the N-monodesmethyl metabolite (M2 ).Urinary excretio n of bedaquiline is negligible . Bedaquiline and M2 are not substrates or inhibitors of P -glycoprotein.CYP3A4 inducers 
 Bedaquiline exposure may be reduced during co -administration with inducers of CYP3A4.In aninteraction study of single -dose bedaquili ne and once daily rifampi cin (strong inducer) in healthy adult subjects , the exposure (AUC) to bedaquiline was reduced by 52% [90% CI ( -57; -46)]. Due to the possibility of a reduction of the therapeutic effect of bedaquiline due to a decrease in systemic exposure, co-administration of bedaquiline and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. efavirenz , etravirine, rifamycins including rifampicin, rifapentine and rifabutin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, St. John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum )) used systemically should be avoided.CYP3A4 inhibitors 
 Bedaquiline exposure may be increased during co -administration with inhibitors of CYP3A4.The short -term c o-administration of bedaquiline and ketoconazole (potent CYP3A 4inhibitor) in healthy adult subjects increased the exposure (AUC) to bedaquiline by 22% [90% CI (12; 32)]. A more pronounced effect on bedaquiline may be observed during prolonged co -administration of ketoconazole or other inhibitors of CYP3A 4.There are no safety data from bedaquiline multiple dose t rials which utilised a dose higher than the indicated dose. Due to the potential risk of adverse reactions due to an increase in systemic exposure , prolonged co-administration of bedaquiline and moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ciprofloxacin, ery thromycin, fluconazole, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, ritonavir) used systemically for more than 14 consecutive days should be avoided. If co-administration is required, more frequent electrocardiogram monitoring and monitoring of transaminases is recommen ded(see section 4.4).Other antituberculosis medicinal products 
 The short -term co -administration of bedaquiline with isoniazid/pyrazinamide in healthy adult subjectsdid not result in clinically relevant changes in the exposure (AUC) to bedaquiline, iso niazid or 8pyrazinamide. No dose -adjustment of isoniazid or pyrazinamide is required during co-administrationwith bedaquiline .In a placebo -controlled clinical study in patients with multi -drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis , no major impact of co -administration of bedaquiline on the pharmacokinetics of ethambutol, kanamycin, pyrazinamide, ofloxacin or cycloserine was observed.Antiretroviral medicinal products 
 In aninteraction study of single -dose bedaquiline and multiple -dose lopinavir/ritonavir in adult s, exposure (AUC) to bedaq uiline was increased by 22% [90% CI (11; 34)] . A more pronounced effect on bedaquiline plasma exposures may be observed during prolonged co -administration withlopinavir/ritonavir. Published data on adult patients treated with bedaquiline as part of therapy for drug-resistant TB and lopinavir/ritonavir -based ART have shown that bedaquiline exposure (AUC) over 48 hours was increased approximately 2fold. This increase is likely due to ritonavir. If the benefit outweighs the risk, SIRTURO may be used with caution when co -administered with lopinavir/ritonavir. Increases in plasma exposure to bedaquiline would be expected when it is co-administered with other ritonavir -boosted HIV protease inhibitors. Of note, no change in beda quiline dosing is recommended in case of co -treatment with lopinavir/ritonavir or other ritonavir -boosted HIV protease inhibitors. There areno data to support a lowered bedaquiline dose in such circumstances.Co-administration of single -dose bedaquiline and multiple -dose nevirapine in adult s did not result in clinically relevant changes in the exposure to bedaquiline. Clinical data on co-administration of bedaquiline and antiretroviral ag ents in adult patients co -infected with human immunodeficiency virusand multi -drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis are not available (see section 4.4).Efavirenz is a moderate inducer of CYP3A 4activity and co -administration with bedaquiline may result in reduced bedaquiline exposure and loss of activity, and is, the refore, not recommended.QT interval prolonging medicinal products 
 There is limited information available on the potential for a pharmacodynamic interaction between bedaquiline and medicinal products that prolong the QT interval. In aninteraction study of bedaquiline and ketoconazole in adult s, a greater effect on QTc was observed after repeated dosing with bedaquiline and ketoconazole in combination than after repeated dosing with the individual medicinal products . An additive or synergistic effect on Q T prol ongation of bedaquiline when co -administered with other medicinal products that prolong the QT interval cannot be excluded and frequent monitoring is recommended (see section 4.4).QT interval and concomitant clofazimine use 
 In an open label Ph ase 
 IIb trial, mean increases in QTc 
 F were larger in the 1 7adult subjects who were using concomitant clofazimine at week24 (mean change from reference of 31.9 ms) than in subjects who were not using concomitant clofazimine at week24 (mean change from refere nce of 12. 3ms) (see section 4.4).Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
