4.5 and 5.3).The patients should be closely monitored and the dose of mercaptopurine/azathioprine should be subsequently adjusted based on the evaluation of the therapeutic response and the onset of eventual toxic e ffects.Organ transplant recipients 
 As there has been no experience in organ transplant recipients, the use of febuxostat in such patients is not recommended (see section 5.1).Theophylline 
 Co-administration of febuxostat 80 mgand theophylline 400 mgsingle dose in healthy subjects showed absence of any pharmacokinetic interaction (see section 4.5). Febuxostat 80 mgcan be used in patients concomitantly treated with theophylline without risk of increasing theophylline plasma levels. No data is availabl e for febuxostat 120 mg.Liver disorders 
 During the combined phase 3 clinical studies, mild liver function test abnormalities were observed in patients treated with febuxostat (5.0%). Liver function test is recommended prior to the initiation of therapy with febuxostat and periodically thereafter based on clinical judgment (see section 5.1).Thyroid disorders 
 Increased TSH values (>5.5 μIU/m 
 L) were observed in patients on long -term treatment with febuxostat (5.5%) in the long term open label extension studies. Caution is required when febuxostat is used in patients with alteration of thyroid function (see section 5.1).Excipients 
 Febuxostat Krka contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose -galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine.This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium -free’.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Mercaptopurine/azathioprine5On the basis of the mechanism of action of febuxostat on XO inhibition concomitant use is not recommended. Inhibition of XO by febuxostat may cause increased plasma concentrations of these drugs leading to myelotoxicity. In cas e of concomitant administration with febuxostat, the dose of mercaptopurine/azathioprine should be reduced to 20% or less of the previously prescribed dose (see section s4.4 and 5.3).The adequacy of the proposed dose adjustment, which was based on a model ling and simulation analysis from preclinical data in rats, was confirmed by the results of a clinical drug -drug interaction study in healthy volunteers, receiving azathioprine 100 mgalone and a reduced dose of azathioprine (25mg) in combination with feb uxostat (40 or 120 mg). Drug interaction studies of febuxostat with other cytotoxic chemotherapy have not been conducted. No data is available regarding the safety of febuxostat during other cytotoxic therapy.Rosiglitazone/CYP2C8 substrates 
 Febuxostat was shown to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8 in vitro. In a study in healthy subjects, coadministration of 120 mgfebuxostat QD with a single 4 mgoral dose of rosiglitazone had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of rosiglitazone and its metabolite N -desmethy l rosiglitazone, indicating that febuxostat is not a CYP2C8 enzyme inhibitor in vivo. Thus, co -administration of febuxostat with rosiglitazone or other CYP2C8 substrates is not expected to require any dose adjustment for those compounds.Theophylline 
 An interaction study in healthy subjects has been performed with febuxostat to evaluate whether the inhibition of XO may cause an increase in the theophylline circulating levels as reported with other XO inhibitors. The results of the study showed that the co -administration of febuxostat 80 mg 
 QD with theophylline 400 mgsingle dose has no effect on the pharmacokinetics or safety of theophylline. Ther efore no special caution is advised when febuxostat 80 mgand theophylline are given concomitantly. No data is available for febuxostat 120 mg.Naproxen and other inhibitors of glucuronidation 
 Febuxostat metabolism depends on Uridine Glucuronosyl Transferase (UGT) enzymes. Medicinal products that inhibit glucuronidation, such as NSAIDs and probenecid, could in th eory affect the elimination of febuxostat. In healthy subjects concomitant use of febuxostat and naproxen 250 mgtwice daily was associated with an increase in febuxostat exposure (C max 28%, AUC 41% and t 1/2 
26%). In clinical studies the use of naproxen or other NSAIDs/Cox -2 inhibitors was not related to any clinically significant increase in adverse events.Febuxostat can be co -administered with naproxen with no dose adjustment of febuxostat or naproxen being necessary.Inducers of glucuronidation 
 Poten t inducers of UGT enzymes might possibly lead to increased metabolism and decreased efficacy of febuxostat. Monitoring of serum uric acid is therefore recommended 1 -2 weeks after start of treatment with a potent inducer of glucuronidation. Conversely, cess ation of treatment of an inducer might lead to increased plasma levels of febuxostat.Colchicine/indometacin/hydrochlorothiazide/warfarin 
 Febuxostat can be co -administered with colchicine or indomethacin with no dose adjustment of febuxostat or the co -administered active substance being necessary.No dose adjustment is necessary for febuxostat when administered with hydrochlorothiazide.No dose adjustment is necessary for warfarin when administered with febuxostat. Administration of 6febuxostat (80 mgor120mgonce daily) with warfarin had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of warfarin in healthy subjects. INR and Factor VII activity were also not affected by the co -administration of febuxostat.Desipramine/CYP2D6 substrates 
 Febuxostat was shown to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 in vitro. In a study in healthy subjects, 
120mgfebuxostat QD resulted in a mean 22% increase in AUC of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate indicating a potential weak inhibitory effect of febuxostat on th e CYP2D6 enzyme in vivo . Thus, co -administration of febuxostat with other CYP2D6 substrates is not expected to require any dose adjustment for those compounds.Antacids 
 Concomitant ingestion of an antacid containing magnesium hydroxide and aluminium hydroxide has been shown to delay absorption of febuxostat (approximately 1 hour) and to cause a 32% decrease in Cmax, but no significant change in AUC was observed. Therefore, febuxostat may be taken without regard to antacid use.
