4.5 and 4.8).  
 The use of orlistat may be associated with hyperoxaluria and oxalate nephropathy leading sometimes to renal failure. This risk is increased  in patients with underlying chronic kidney disease and/or volume depletion (see section 4.8).  
 Rare occurrence of hypothyroidism and/or reduced control of hypothyroidism may occur. The mechanism, although not proven, may involve a decreased ab sorption of iodine salts and/or levothyroxine (see section 4.5).  
 Antiepileptics patient: Orlistat may unbalance anticonvulsant  treatment by decreasing the absorption of antiepileptic drugs, leading to convulsions (see section 4.5).  
 Antire trovirals for HIV: Orlistat may potentially reduce the absorption of antiretroviral medicines for HIV and could negatively affect the efficacy of antiretroviral medications for HIV (see section 4.5 ). 
 This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per  capsule, t hat is to say essentially 
‘sodium -free’.  
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of inte raction  
 Ciclosporin  A decrease in ciclosporin plasma levels has been observed in a drug -drug- interaction study and also reported i n several case s, when orlistat was administered concomitantly. This can lead to a decrease of immunosuppressive efficacy. The refore the combination is not recommended (see section 4.4). However, if such concomitant use is unavoidable, more frequent monitor ing of ciclosp orin blood levels should be performed both after addition of orlistat and upon discontinuation of orlistat in ciclosporin treated patients. Ciclosporin blood levels should be monitored until stabilised.  
 Acarbose  In the absence of pharmacoki netic interact ion studies, the concomitant administration of orlistat with acarbose should be avoided.  
 Oral anticoagulants  4 When warfarin or other anticoagulants are given in combination with orlistat, international normalised ratio (INR) values should be  monitored (se e section 4.4) . 
 Fat soluble vitamins  Treatment with orlistat may potentially impair the absorption of fat- soluble vitamins (A, D, E and K).  The vast majority of patients receiving up to four full years of treatment with orlistat in clinical studies had vi tamin A, D, E and K and beta -carotene levels that stayed within normal range. In order to ensure adequate nutri tion, patients on a weight control diet should be advised to have a diet rich in fruit and vegetables and use of a multivitamin supplement could be considered . If a multivitamin supplement is recommended, it should be taken at least two hours after the adm inistration of orlistat or at bedtime.  
 Amiodarone   A slight decrease in plasma levels of amiodarone, when given as a single dose, has been obser ved in a limited number of healthy volunteers who received orlistat concomitantly.  In patients receiving amioda rone treatment, the clinical relevance of this effect remains unknown  but may  become clinically relevant in some cases. I n patients  receiving conco mitant amiodarone treatment, reinforcement of clinical and ECG monitoring is warranted.  
 Convulsions have bee n reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and antiepileptic drugs  e.g. valproate, lamotrigine , for which a causal relationship t o an interaction cannot be excluded. Therefore, these patients should be monitored for possible changes in the frequency and/or severity of convulsions.  
 Rare occurrence of hypothyroidism and/or reduced control of hypothyroidism may occur. T he mechanism, al though not proven, may involve a decreased absorption of iodine salts and/or levothyroxine (see section 4.4).  
 There are some case reports of reduced efficacy of antiretroviral HIV medicines, antidepressants antipsychot ics (including lithiu m) and benzodi azepines  coincidental to the initiation of orlistat treatment in previously well -controlled patients.  Therefor e orlistat treatment should only be initiated after careful consideration of the possible impact in these patients.  
  Lack of inter actions  No int eractions with amitriptyline, atorvastatin, biguanides, digoxin, fibrates, fluoxetine, losartan, phenytoin, phe ntermine, pravastatin, nifedipine Gastrointestinal Therapeutic System (GITS), nifedipine slow release, sibutramine or alcohol have been observed. T he absence of these interactions has been demonstrated in specific drug- drug- interaction studies.  
 The absenc e of an interaction between oral contraceptives and orlistat has been demonstrated in specific drug -drug interaction studies. However, orlistat m ay indirectly reduce the availability of oral contraceptives and lead to unexpected pregnancies in some individ ual cases. An additional contraceptive method is recommended in case of severe diarrhoea (see section 4.4) . 
 