4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Semaglutide delays gastric emptying and has the potential to impact the rate of absorption  of concomitantly administered oral medicinal products. Semaglutide should be used with caution in patients receiving oral medicinal products that require rapid gastrointestinal absorption.  
 Paracetamol  
 Semaglutide delays the rate of gastric emptying as assessed by paracetamol pharmacokinetics during a standardised meal test. Paracetamol AUC
0-60min and C max were decreased by 2 7% and 23%, respectively, following concomitant use of semaglutide 1  mg. The total paracetamol exposure (AUC 0-5h) was not affected. N o clinically relevant effect on the rate of gastric emptying was observed with semaglutide 2.4  mg, following 20 weeks of administration of semaglutide, probably due to a tolerance effect. No dose adjustment of paracetamol is necessary when administered with semaglutide.  
 Oral contraceptives 
 Semaglutide is not anticipated to decrease the ef fect of oral contraceptives as semaglutide did not change the overall exposure of ethinylestradiol and levonorgestrel to a clinically relevant degree when an oral contraceptive combination medicinal product  (0.03 mg ethinylestradiol/0.15 mg levonorgestrel) was co -administered with semaglutide.  Exposure of ethinylestradiol was  not affected; an increase of 20% was observed for levonorgestrel exposure at steady state. Cmax was not affected for any of the compounds . 
 Atorvastatin  
 Semaglutide did not change the overall exposure of atorvastatin following a single dose administration of atorvastatin (40 mg). Atorvastatin C max was decreased by 38%. This was assessed not to be clinically relevant.  
 6 Digoxin  
 Semaglutide did not change the overall exposure or C max of digoxin following a s ingle dose of digoxin (0.5 mg). 
 Metformin 
 Semaglutide did not change the overall exposure or Cmax of metformin following dosing of 500 mg twice daily over 3.5 days.  
 Warfarin a nd other coumarin derivatives  
 Semaglutide did not change the overall exposure or Cmax of R- and S -warfarin following a single dose of warfarin (25  mg), and the pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin as measured by the international normalised ratio  (INR) were not affected in a clinically relevant manner . However, cases of decreased INR have been reported during concomitant use of acenocoumarol and semaglutide. Upon initiation of semaglutide treatment in patients on warfarin or other coumarin derivatives, frequent monitoring of INR is recommended.  
 
