4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No interaction studies have been performed.  
 Medicinal products that affect coagulation  
 Reduction of platelet aggregation and plasma fibrinogen levels and a moderate increase in partial thromboplastin and prothrombin  time s have been reported as possible effect s following oral administration of bromelain. In vitro  and animal data suggest that bromelain can also promote fibrinolysis . Caution and monitoring  is therefore needed when prescribing concomitant medicinal products that affect coagulation (see also section 4.4.). 
 CYP2C8 and CYP 2C9 substrates  
 The m edicinal product , when absorbed, is an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2C8 (CYP2C8)  and P450 2C9 (CYP2C9) . This should be taken into account if this medicinal product  is used in patients receiving CYP2C8 substrates (including amiodarone, amodiaquine, chloroquine, fluvastatin, paclitaxel, pioglitazone, repaglinide, , and torasemide)  and CYP2C9 substrates  (including ibuprofen, tolbutamide , glipizide, losartan, celecoxib, warfarin, and phenytoin) .  
 Topical antibacterial medicinal products  
 Topically applied antibacterial medicinal products (e.g. silver sulfadiazine or povidone iodine) may decrease the efficacy of this medicinal product  (see section 4.4).  
 
7 Fluorouracil and vincristine  
 Bromelain  may enhance the actions of fluorouracil and vincristine.  Patients should be monitored for increased toxicity.  
 ACE inhibitors  
 Bromelain may enhance the hypotensive effect of ACE inhibitors, causing larger decreases in blood pressure than expected.  Blood pressure should be monitored in patients receiving ACE inhibitors .  
 Benzodiazepines, barbiturates, narcotics and antidepressants  
 Bromelain  may increase drowsiness caused by some medicinal products (e.g. , benzodiaz epines, barbiturates, narcotics and antidepressants) . This should be taken into account when dosing such products.  
 Paediatric population No interaction studies have been performed in children/adolescent s. 
 
