4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Medicinal products affecting the pharmacokinetics of tezacaftor and ivacaftor  
 CYP3A inducers  
 Tezacaftor and ivacaftor are substrates of CYP3A (ivacaftor is a sensitive substrate of CYP3A). Concomitant use of CYP3A inducers may result in reduced exposures and thus reduced efficacy  of Symkevi and  ivacaftor . Co-administration of ivacaftor with rifampi cin, a strong CYP3A inducer, significantly decreased ivacaftor exposure [area under the curve (AUC )] by 89%. Tezacaftor exposures can also be expected to decrease significantly during co -administration with strong CYP3A inducers; therefore, co- administration with strong CYP3A inducers is not recommended.  
 Examples of strong CYP3A inducers include  rifampi cin, rifabutin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, phenytoin, and St. John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ). 
 CYP3A inhibitors  
 Co-administration with itraconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, increased tezacaftor exposure (measured as AUC) by 4 -fold and increased ivacaftor AUC by 15.6- fold. T he dose of Symkevi should be adjusted  when co- administer ed with strong CYP3A inhibitors  (see Table 2 in section  4.2).  
 Examples of strong CYP3A inhibitors include  ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole , telithromycin and clarithromycin . 
 Physiologically based pharmacokinetic modeling suggested co- administration with fluconazole, a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, may increase tezacaftor exposure (AUC) by approximately 2- fold. Co-administration of fluconazole increased ivacaftor AUC by 3 -fold. T he dose of Symkevi and  ivacaftor should be adjusted  when co- administered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors (see Table 2 in section  4.2). 
 Examples of moderate CYP3A inhibitors include  fluconazole , erythromycin  and verapamil . 
 Co-administration with grapefruit juice, which contains one or more components that moderately inhibit CYP3A, may increase exposure of ivacaftor and tezacaftor; therefore, food or drink containing grapefruit should be avoided during treatment (see section  4.2).  
 Potential for tezacaftor/ivacaftor to interact with transporters  
 In vitro  studies showed that tezacaftor is a substrate for the uptake transporter OATP1B1, and efflux transporters P -glycoprotein ( P-gp) and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP). Tezacaftor is not a substrate for  OATP1B3. Exposure to tezacaftor is not expected to be affected significantly by concomitant  inhibitors of OATP1B1, P -gp, or BCRP due to its high intrinsic permeability and low likelihood of being excreted intact. However, e xposure to M2- TEZ (tezacaftor metabolite) may be increased by inhibitors of P -gp. Therefore, caution should be used when P -gp inhibitors are used with Symkevi.  
 In vitro  studies showed that ivacaftor is not a substrate for OATP1B1, OATP1B3, or P -gp. Ivacaftor and its metabolites are substrates of BCRP  in vitro . Due to its high intrinsic permeability and low likelihood of being excreted intact, co-administration of BCRP inhibitors is not expected to alter exposure of ivacaftor and M1- IVA, while any potential changes in M6 -IVA exposures are not expected to be clinically relevant.  
 8 Ciprofloxacin  
 Co-administration of ciprofloxacin did not affect the exposure of ivacaftor or tezacaftor. No dose adjustment is required when Symkevi is co- administered with ciprofloxacin.  
 Medicinal products affected by tezacaftor and ivacaftor  
 CYP2C9 substrates  
 Ivacaftor may inhibit CYP2C9; therefore, monitoring of the international normalized ratio (INR) is recommended during co -administration of warfarin with Symkevi given in combination with ivacaftor . Other medicinal products for which exposure may be increased  include glimepiride and glipizide; these medicinal products should be used with caution.  
 CYP3A, digoxin and o ther P -gp substrates  
 CYP3A substrates  
 Co-administration with (oral) midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A substrate, did not affect midazolam exposure. No dose adjustment of CYP3A substrates is required when co- administered with Symkevi in combination with ivacaftor.  
 Digoxin and other P -gp substrates 
 Co-administration with digoxin, a sensitive P -gp substrate, increased digoxin exposure by 1.3- fold, consistent with weak inhibition of P -gp by ivacaftor. Administration of Symkevi in combination with ivacaftor may increase systemic exposure of medicinal products that are sensitive substrates of P -gp, which may increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. When used concomitantly with digoxin or other substrates of P -gp with a narrow therapeutic index, such as ciclosporin, everolimus, sirolimus, and tacrolimus, caution and appropriate monitoring should be used.  
 Hormonal contraceptives  
 Symkevi in combination  with ivacaftor ha s been studied with an estrogen/progesterone oral contraceptive and was found to have no significant effect on the exposures of the hormonal contraceptive. Symkevi and  ivacaftor are not expected to modify the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives.  
 OATP1B1 substrates  
 Symkevi in combination with ivacaftor has been studied with pitavastatin, an OATP1B1 substrate, and was found to have no clinically relevant effect on the exposure of pitavastatin (1.24- fold increased exposure based on AUC) . No dose adjustment of OATP1B1 substrates is required when co-administered with Symkevi.  
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 