4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Drug interaction trials were not conducted for EVOTAZ. As EVOTAZ contains atazanavir and cobicistat, any interactions that have been identified with these active substances individually may occur with EVOTAZ.  
 Complex or unknown mechanisms of drug interaction preclude extrapolation of rit onavir drug interactions to certain cobicistat drug interactions. The recommendations given for concomitant use of atazanavir and other medicinal products may, therefore, differ depending on whether atazanavir is boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat. In pa rticular, atazanavir boosted with cobicistat is more sensitive for CYP3A induction (see section 4.3 and the interaction table). Caution is also required during the first time of treatment if switching the pharmacoenhancer from ritonavir to cobicistat (see section  4.4). 
 Medicinal products that affect atazanavir/cobicistat exposure  
 Atazanavir is metabolised in the liver through CYP3A4. Cobicistat is a CYP3A substrate and is metabolised to a minor extent by CYP2D6. 
 Concomitant use contraindicated  Co-adminis tration of EVOTAZ with medicinal products that are strong inducers of CYP3A (such as carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampicin, and St. John’s wort [ Hypericum  perforatum ]) may result in decreased plasma concentrations of atazanavir and/or cobicistat, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and possible development of resistance to atazanavir (see section  4.3 and Table 1).  
 9 Concomitant use not recommended  Co-administration of EVOTAZ with medicinal products containing ritonavir or cobicistat, which ar e strong inhibitors of CYP3A, may result in additional boosting and increased plasma concentration of atazanavir.  
 Co-administration of EVOTAZ with medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentration of atazanavir and/or cobicistat. Some examples include, but are not limited to, itraconazole, ketoconazole and voriconazole (see Table 1). 
 Co-administration of EVOTAZ with medicinal products that are moderate to weak inducers of CYP3A may result in decreased plasma concentration of atazanavir and/or cobicistat, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and possible development of resistance to atazanavir. Some examples include, but are not limited to etravirine, nevirapine, efavirenz, fluticasone and bosentan (see Table 1). 
 Medicinal  products that may be affected by atazanavir/cobicistat 
 Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and UGT1A1. Atazanavir is a weak to moderate inhibitor of CYP2C8. Atazanavir has been shown in vivo  not to induce its own metabolism, nor to increase the biotransformation of some medicinal products metabolised by CYP3A4.  Cobicistat is a strong mechanism -based CYP3A inhibitor and a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. Cobicistat inhibits the transporters p-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, MATE1, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Cobicistat is not expected to inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 or CYP2C19. Cobicistat is not expected to induce CYP3A4 or P-gp. Unlike ritonavir, cobicistat is not an inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 or UGT1A1. 
 Concomitant use cont raindicated Co-administration of medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A and have narrow therapeutic indeces and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events are contraindicated with EVOTAZ. These medicinal products include alfuzosin, amiodarone, astemizole, bepridil, cisapride, colchicine, dronedarone, ergot deriviatives (e.g. dihydroergotamine, ergometrine, ergotamine, methylergonovine), lomitapide, lovastatin, orally administered midazolam, pimozide, quetiapine, quinidine, lurasidone, simvastatin, sildenafil (when used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension), avanafil, systemic lidocaine, ticagrelor, terfenadine and triazolam.  
 Co-administration of EVOTAZ with grazoprevir -containing products , including elbasvir/grazoprevir fixed dose combination (used to treat chronic hepatitis C infection) is contraindicated because of the increase in grazoprevir and elbasvir plasma concentrations and potential for the increase in risk of ALT elevations associated with the increase in grazoprevir concentrations (see section  4.3 and Table  1). Co-administration of EVOTAZ with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir fixed dose combination is contraindicated because of the potential increase in the risk of ALT elevations due to  a significant increase in glecaprevir and pibrentasvir plasma concentrations (see section  4.3). 
 Increased plasma concentrations of medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A, CYP2C8, CYP2D6 and/or UGT1A1 are expected when co-administered with EVOTA Z. Co -administration of EVOTAZ in patients receiving medicinal products that are substrates of the transporters P -gp, BCRP, MATE1, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the co-administered medicinal products (see section  4.4). Co-administration with dabigatran, a substrate of P-gp, is contraindicated. Clinically significant interactions between EVOTAZ and substrates of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C9 or CYP2C19 are not expected. 
 Interaction table  
 Interactions between EVOTAZ and other medicinal products are listed in Table 1 below (increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔”). The recommendations shown in Table  1 are based on either drug interaction trials of unboosted atazanavir, atazanavir boosted with ritona vir, 10 cobicistat or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of the interaction and potential for serious adverse reactions or loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ. If available, 90%  confidence intervals (CI) are shown in parentheses. The studies presented in Table 1 were conducted in healthy subjects unless otherwise noted.  
 Table  1: Interactions between EVOTAZ and other medicinal products  
 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  ANTI -HCV AGENTS  Grazoprevir 200  mg once daily  (atazanavir 300  mg / ritonavir 
100 mg once daily)  Atazanavir AUC ↑43% (↑30% ↑57%)  Atazanavir C max ↑12% (↑1% 
↑24%)  Atazanavir C min ↑23% (↑13% 
↑134%)  
 Grazoprevir AUC: ↑958% (↑678% ↑1339%)  Grazoprevir C max: ↑524% (↑342% ↑781%)  Grazoprevir C min: ↑1064% (↑696% ↑1602%)  
 Grazoprevir concentrations were greatly increased when co-administered with atazanavir/ritonavir.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and elbasvir/grazoprevir is contraindicated because of the expected i ncrease in grazoprevir plasma concentrations and the associated potential increase in the risk of ALT elevations (see section  4.3).  Elbasvir 50  mg once daily  (atazanavir 300  mg / ritonavir 
100 mg once daily  Atazanavir AUC ↑7% (↓2% 
↑17%)  Atazanavir C max ↑2% (↓4% 
↑8%)  Atazanavir C min ↑15% (↑2% 
↑29%)  
 Elbasvir AUC: ↑376% (↑307% ↑456%)  Elbasvir Cmax: ↑315% (↑246% ↑397%)  Elbasvir C min: ↑545% (↑451% ↑654%)  
 Elbasvir concentrations were increased when co-administered with atazanavir/ritonavir  11 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Sofosbuvir 
400 mg/velpatasvir, 
100 mg/voxilaprevir 100  mg single dose*  (atazanavir 300  mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily)  Sofosbuvir AUC: ↑40% (↑25% ↑57%)  Sofosbuvir C max:↑29% (↑9% 
↑52%)  
 Velpatasvir AUC: ↑93% (↑58% ↑136%)  Velpatasvir C max: ↑29% (↑7% ↑56%)  
 Voxilaprevir AUC: ↑331% (↑276% ↑393%)  Voxilaprevir C max: ↑342% (↑265% ↑435%)  
 
*Lack of pharmacokinetics interaction bounds 70- 143%  
 Effect on atazanavir and ritonavir exposure has not been studied.  Expected:  
↔ Atazanavir  
↔ Ritonavir  
 The mechanism o f interaction between atazanavir/ritonavir and sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir is inhibition of OATP1B, Pgp, and CYP3A.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ with voxilaprevir -containing products is expected to increase the concentration of voxilaprevir. Co-admi nistration of EVOTAZ with voxilaprevir -containing regimens is not recommended.  12 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Glecaprevir 
300 mg/pibrentasvir 120  mg once daily  (atazanavir 300  mg with ritonavir 100 mg once daily*)  Glecaprevir AUC: ↑553% (↑424% ↑714%)  Glecaprevir C max: ↑306% (↑215% ↑423%)  Glecaprevir C min: ↑1330% (↑885% ↑1970%)  
 Pibrentasvir AUC: ↑64% (↑48% ↑82%)  Pibrentasvir C max: ↑29% (↑15% ↑45%)  Pibrentasvir C min: ↑129% (↑95% ↑168%)  
 Atazanavir AUC: ↑11% (↑3% ↑19%)  Atazanavir C max: ↔ 0% (↓  
10% ↑10%)  Atazanavir C min: ↑16% (↑7% 
↑25%)  
 
* Effect of atazanavir and ritonavir on the first dose of glecaprevir and pibrentasvir is reported.  Contraindicated because of the potential increase in the risk of ALT elevations due to a significant increase in glecaprevir and pibrentasvir plasma concentrations (see section  4.3) ANTI -RETROVIRALS  Protease inhibitors:  EVOTAZ in combination with other protease inhibitors is not recommended because co -administration may not provide adequate protease inhibitor exposure.  Indinavir  Indinavir is associated with indirect unconjugated hyperbilirubinaemia due to inhibition of UGT.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and indinavir is not recommended (see section  4.4).  Nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)  Lamivudine 150  mg twice  daily + zidovudine 
300 mg twice  daily  (atazanavir 400  mg once  daily)  No significant effect on lamivudine and zidovudine concentrations was observed when co- administered with atazanavir.  Based on these data and because cobicistat is not expected to have a significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of NRTIs, the co-administration of EVOTAZ with these medicinal products is not expected to significantly alter the exposure of the co- administered medicinal products.  13 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Didanosine (buffered tablets) 
200 mg/stavudine 40 mg, both single dose  (atazanavir 400  mg single  dose)  Atazanavir, simultaneous administration with dd 
 I+d4T (fasted)  Atazanavir AUC ↓87% (↓92% ↓79%)  Atazanavir Cmax ↓89% (↓94% ↓82%)  Atazanavir C min ↓84% (↓90%  
↓73%)  
 Atazanavir, dosed 1  hr after dd 
 I+d4T (fasted)  Atazanavir AUC ↔3% (↓36% ↑67%)  Atazanavir C max ↑12% (↓33% ↑18%)  Atazanavir C min ↔3% (↓39% 
↑73%)  
 Atazanavir concentrations were greatly decreased when co-administered with didanosine (buffered tablets) and stavudine.  
 The mechanism of interaction is a reduced solubility of atazanavir with increasing p 
 H related to the presence of anti -acid agent in didanosine buffered tablets.  
 No significant effect on didanosine and stavudine concentrations was observed.  Didanosine should be taken in the fasted state 2  hours after EVOTAZ taken with food. The co-administration of EVOTAZ with stavudine is not expected to significantly alter the exposure of stavudine.  Didanosine ( enteric -coated capsules) 400  mg single  dose  (atazanavir 400  mg once  daily)  Didanosine (with food)  Didanosine AUC ↓34% (↓40% ↓26%)  Didanosine Cmax ↓36% (↓45% ↓26%)  Didanosine C min ↑13% (↓9% 
↑41%)  
 No significant effect on atazanavir concentrations was observed when admini stered with enteric -coated didanosine, but administration with food decreased didanosine concentrations.  14 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF) 300 mg once  daily  (atazanavir 400  mg once  daily)  
 
300 mg tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is equivalent to 
245 mg tenofovir disoproxil.  Atazanavir AUC ↓25% (↓30% ↓19%)  Atazanavir C max ↓21% (↓27% ↓14%)  Atazanavir C min ↓40% (↓48% 
↓32%)  
 Tenofovir:  AUC: ↑24% (↑21% ↑28%)  Cmax: ↑14% (↑8% ↑20%)  Cmin: ↑22% (↑15% ↑30%)  
 Co-administration of tenofovir DF with cobicistat is expected to increase tenofovir plasma concentrations.  
 Tenofovir:  AUC: ↑23%  Cmin: ↑55%  
 The mechanism of interaction between atazanavir and tenofovir DF is unknown.  Tenofovir  DF may decrease the AUC and C min of atazanavir. W hen co-administered with tenofovir DF, it is recommended that EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF 300 mg be given together with food. Atazanavir increases tenofovir concentrations. Higher concentrations could potentiate tenofovir -associated adverse reactions, includin g renal disorders. Patients receiving tenofovir disoproxil should be monitored for tenofovir -associated adverse reactions.  Tenofovir alafenamide 10  mg once daily/emtricitabine 
200 mg once daily  (atazanavir 300  mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg once daily) Tenofovir alafenamide  AUC ↑75% (↑55% ↑98%)  Cmax ↑80% (↑48% ↑118%)  
 Tenofovir:  AUC ↑247% (↑229% 
↑267%)  Cmax ↑216% (↑200% ↑233%)  Cmin ↑273% (↑254% ↑293%)  
 Cobicistat: AUC ↑5% ( ↔0% ↑9%)  Cmax ↓4% (↓8% ↔ 0%) Cmin ↑35% (↑21% ↑51%)  
 Co-administration of tenofovir alafenamide with cobicistat is expected to increase tenofovir alafenamide and tenofovir plasma concentrations.  
 Atazanavir:  AUC ↑6% (↑1% ↑11%)  Cmax ↓2% (↓4% ↑2%)  Cmin ↑18% (↑6% ↑31%)  When co -administering tenofovir alafenamide/emtricitabine and EVOTAZ, the recommended dose of tenofovir alafenamide/emtricitabine is 
10/200  mg once daily.  Tenofovir alafenamide 10  mg once daily  (atazanavir 300  mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg once daily)  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir alafenamide 25 mg for treatment of HBV infection is not recommended  15 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)  Efavirenz 600  mg once  daily  (atazanavir 400  mg once  daily)  Atazanavir  Atazanavir AUC ↓74% (↓78% ↓68%)  Atazanavir C max ↓59% (↓77% ↓49%)  Atazanavir C min ↓93% (↓95% 
↓90%)  EVOTAZ is not recommended for co-administration with efavirenz. Efavirenz decreases atazanavir concentrations and is expected to decrease cobicistat plasma concentrations. This may result in loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and development of resistance to atazanavir (see section  4.4). Efavirenz 600  mg single  dose (cobicistat 150  mg once  daily)  Efavirenz:  AUC: ↔7% (↓11% ↓3%)  Cmax: ↓13% (↓20% ↓6%)  Cmin: Not determined  
 The mechanism of interaction between efavirenz and atazanavir, or efavirenz and cobicistat is CYP3A4 induction by efavirenz.  Etravirine  Co-administration of etravirine and EVOTAZ is expected to decrease atazanavir and cobicistat plasma concentrations.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 induction by etravirine.  EVOTAZ is not recommended for co-administration with etravirine because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir.  16 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Nevirapine 200  mg twice  daily (atazanavir  300 mg once  daily with ritonavir 100 mg once  daily)  
 Study conducted in HIV-infected patients  Nevirapine AUC ↑25% (↑17% ↑34%)  Nevirapine C max ↑17% (↑9% 
↑25%)  Nevirapine C min ↑32% (↑22% ↑43%)  
 Atazanavir AUC ↓42% (↓52% ↓29%)  Atazanavir C max ↓28% (↓40% ↓14%)  Atazanavir C min ↓72% (↓80% 
↓60%)  
 Co-administration of nevirapine and cobicistat is expected to decrease cobicistat plasma concentrations while nevirapine plasma concentrations may be increased.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 induction by nevirapine and CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and nevirapine is not recommended and may result in a loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and development of resistance to atazan avir. Co -administration of nevirapine and EVOTAZ is expected to increase nevirapine plasma concentrations which may increase the risk of nevirapine -associated toxicity (see section  4.4). Rilpivirine  EVOTAZ is expected to increase rilpivirine plasma concen trations.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A inhibition.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and rilpivirine can be used without dose adjustments, as the expected increase in rilpivirine concentrations is not considered clinically relevant.  Integrase Inhibitors  Dolutegravir  Co-administration with EVOTAZ is expected to increase dolutegravir plasma concentrations. Dolutegravir is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is inhibition of UGT1A1 by atazanavir.  EVOTAZ and dolutegravir can be used without dose adjustments.  Raltegravir 400  mg twice  daily  (atazanavir  400 mg) Raltegravir AUC ↑72%  Raltegravir C max ↑53%  Raltegravir C 12hr ↑95%  
 The mechanism is UGT1A1 inhibition by atazanavir.  No dose adjustment is required for raltegravir if co -administered with EVOTAZ.  17 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  CCR5 Antagonists  Maraviroc  Maraviroc is a substrate of CYP3A and its plasma concentration increases when co-administered with potent CYP3A inhibitors.  
 Maraviroc is not expected to have an impact on concentrations of atazanavir and cobicistat.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  When co -administering maraviroc and EVOTAZ, patients should receive maraviroc 150  mg twice  daily. For further details, consult the Summary of Product Characteristics for maraviroc.  ANTIBIOTICS   Clarithromycin 500  mg twice  daily  (atazanavir 400  mg once  daily)  Clarithromycin AUC ↑94% (↑75% ↑116%)  Clarithromycin C max ↑50% (↑32% ↑71%)  Clarithromycin C min ↑160% (↑135% ↑188%)  
 
14-OH clarithromycin  
14-OH clarithromycin AUC 
↓70% (↓74% ↓66%)  
14-OH clarithromycin C max 
↓72% (↓76% ↓67%)  
14-OH clarithromycin C min 
↓62% (↓66% ↓58%)  
 Atazanavir AUC ↑28% (↑16% ↑43%)  Atazanavir C max ↔6% (↓7% 
↑20%)  Atazanavir C min ↑91% (↑66% 
↑121%)  
 Clarithromycin may increase concentrations of atazanavir and cobicistat. Exposure to clarithromycin is expected to increase if co -administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and/or cobicistat and clarithromycin.  Alternative antibiotics should be considered.  18 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  ANTIDIABETICS  Metformin  Cobicistat reversibly inhibits MATE1, and concentrations of metformin may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin is recommended in patients who are taking EVOTAZ.  ANTIFUNGALS  Ketoconazole 200  mg once  daily  (atazanavir 400  mg once  daily)  No significant effect on atazanavir concentrations was observed.  Caution is warranted. Specific dosing recommendations are not available for co -administration of EVOTAZ with either ketoconazole or itraconazole.  If co-administration is required, the daily dose of ketoconazole or itraconazole should not exceed 
200 mg. Itraconazole  Itraconazole, like ketoconazole, is a potent inhibitor as well as a substrate of CYP3A4.  
 Concentrations of ketoconazole, itraconazole, and/or cobicistat may be increased with co-administration of ketoconazole or itraconazole with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir, cobicistat and ketoconazole or itraconazole.  Voriconazole  Effects unknown  Voriconazole should not be co-administered with EVOTAZ unless the benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole (see section  4.4). Clinical monitoring may be needed upon co-administration with EVOTAZ.  Fluconazole 200  mg once  daily  (atazanavir 300  mg and ritonavir 100 mg once  daily)  Atazanavir and fluconazole concentrations were not significantly modified when atazanavir/ritonavir was co-administered with fluconazole.  
 Concentration of fluconazole may be increased if co-administered with cobicistat.  Clinical monitoring is recommended upon co-adminis tration with EVOTAZ.  19 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  ANTIGOUT  Colchicine  Colchicine plasma concentrations may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  EVOTAZ must not be co-administered with colchicine to patients with renal or hepatic impairment.  Recommended dosage of colchicine when administered with EVOTAZ in patients without renal or hepatic impairment: a dose reduction in colchicine dosage or an interruption of colchicine treatment is recommended in patients with normal renal or hepatic function if treatment with EVOTAZ is required.  20 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  ANTIMYCOBACTERIALS  Rifabutin 150  mg twice  weekly  (atazanavir 300  mg once  daily with ritonavir 100 mg once  daily)  Rifabutin AUC ↑48% (↑19% 
↑84%)*  Rifabutin C max ↑149% (↑103% ↑206%)*  Rifabutin C min ↑40% (↑5% 
↑87%)*  
 
25-O-desacetyl -rifabutin AUC ↑990% (↑714% 
↑1361%)*  
25-O-desacetyl -rifabutin Cmax ↑677% (↑513% 
↑883%)*  
25-O-desacetyl -rifabutin C min 
↑1045% (↑715% ↑1510%)* 
 
*When compared to rifabutin 150 mg once daily alone. Total rifabutin and 
25-O-desacetyl -rifabutin AUC ↑119% (↑78% ↑169%).  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and rifabutin is not recommended. If the combination is needed, the recommended dose of rifabutin is 
150 mg 3  times per week on set days (for example Monday- Wednesday- Friday). Increased monitoring for rifabutin -associated adverse reactions including neutropenia and uveitis is warranted due to an expected increase in exposure to rifabutin. Further dosage reduction of rifabutin to 150 mg twice weekly on set days is recommended for patients in whom the 150 mg dose 3 times per week is not tolerated. It should be kept in mind that the twice weekly dosa ge of 150 mg may not provide an optimal exposure to rifabutin thus leading to a risk of rifamycin resistance and a treatment failure.  Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate treatment of tuberculosis in HIV-infected patien ts. Rifabutin 150  mg every other day/elvitegravir 150 mg once  daily/cobicistat 150  mg once  daily  Cobicistat:  AUC: ↔ Cmax: ↔ Cmin: ↓66%  
 Rifabutin:  AUC: ↔8%  Cmax: ↔9%  Cmin: ↔6%  
 25-O-desacetyl -rifabutin: AUC: ↑525%  Cmax: ↑384%  Cmin: ↑394%  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Rifampicin 600  mg once  daily  (atazanavir 300  mg once  daily with ritonavir 100 mg once  daily)  Rifampicin is a strong CYP3A4 inducer and has been shown to cause a 72% decrease in atazanavir AUC which can result in virological failure and resistance development.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 induction by rifampicin.  Rifampicin substantially decreases plasma concentrations of atazanavir, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and development of resistance to atazanavir. The combination of rifampicin and EVOTAZ is contraindicated (see section  4.3).  21 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  ACID -REDUCING AGENTS  H2-Receptor antagonists  Without Tenofovir  Famotidine 20  mg twice  daily  (atazanavir 300  mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once  daily) in HIV-infected patients  Atazanavir AUC ↓18% (↓25% ↑1%)  Atazanavir C max ↓20% (↓32% ↓7%)  Atazanavir C min ↔1% (↓16% 
↑18%)  For patients not taking tenofovir,  EVOTAZ once daily with food should be administered simultaneously with, and/or at least 
10 hours after, a dose of the H2-receptor antagonist. The dose of the H 2-receptor antagonist should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 20  mg twice daily.  With Tenofovir DF 300  mg once  daily  Famotidine 20  mg twice  daily  (atazanavir 300  mg/ritonavir 
100 mg/tenofovir DF 300 mg once daily, simultaneous administration)  Atazanavir AUC ↓10% (↓18% ↓2%)  Atazanavir C max ↓9% (↓16% 
↓1%)  Atazanavir C min ↓19% (↓31% 
↓6%)  
 The mechanism of interaction is decreased solubility of atazanavir as intra-gastric p 
 H increases with H 2 blockers.  For patients who are taking tenofovir DF, it is not recommended to co -administer EVOTAZ with an H 2-receptor antagonist.  Proton pump inhibitors  Omeprazole 40  mg once  daily  (atazanavir 400  mg once  daily, 
2 hours after omeprazole)  Atazanavir AUC ↓94% (↓95% ↓93%)  Atazanavir C max ↓96% (↓96% ↓95%)  Atazanavir C min ↓95% (↓97% 
↓93%)  Co-administration of EVOTAZ with proton pump inhibitors is not recommended.  Omeprazole 40  mg once  daily  (atazanavir 300  mg once  daily with ritonavir 100 mg once  daily, 2 hours after omeprazole)  Atazanavir AUC ↓76% (↓78% ↓73%)  Atazanavir C max ↓72% (↓76% ↓68%)  Atazanavir C min ↓78% (↓81% 
↓74%)  Omeprazole 20  mg once  daily am (atazanavir 300  mg once  daily with ritonavir 100 mg once  daily pm, 12 hours after omeprazole)  Atazanavir AUC ↓42% (↓66% ↓25%)  Atazanavir C max ↓39% (↓64% ↓19%)  Atazanavir C min ↓46% (↓59% 
↓29%)  
 The mechanism of interaction is decreased solubility of atazanavir as intra-gastric p 
 H increases with proton pump inhibitors.  22 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Antacids  Antacids and medicinal products containing buffers  Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir may be the consequence of increased gastric p 
 H if antacids, including buffered medicinal products, are administered with EVOTAZ.  EVOTAZ should be administered 
2 hours before or 1  hour after antacids or buffered medicinal products.  ALPHA 1 -ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST  Alfuzosin  Potential for increased alfuzosin concentrations which can result in hypotension.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ with alfuzosin is contraindicated (see section  4.3) ANTICOAGULANTS  Dabigatran  Co-administration with EVOTAZ may increase dabigatran plasma levels with similar effects as seen with other strong P -gp inhibitors.  
 The mechanism of interaction is P -gp inhibition by cobicistat.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ with dabigatran is contraindicated (see section  4.3).  Warfarin  Co-administration with EVOTAZ has the potential to increase warfarin plasma concentrations.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Co-administration with EVOTAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life -threatening bleeding due to increased exposure to warfarin and has not been studied. It is recommended that the INR be monitored.  Apixaban  Edoxaban  Rivaroxaban  Co-administration with EVOTAZ may result in increased plasma concentrations of the DOACs, which may lead to an increased risk of bleeding.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 and/or P -gp inhibition by cobicistat.  Co-administration of apixaban, edoxaban or rivaroxaban is not recommended  with EVOTAZ.  23 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  ANTIPLATELETS  Ticagrelor  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and ticagrelor may increase concentrations of the antiplatelet agent.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Concomitant administration of EVOTAZ with ticagrelor is contraindicated.  
 Use of other antiplatelets not affected by CYP inhibition or induction (e.g., prasugrel) is recommended (see section  4.3). Clopidogrel  Co-administration of EVOTAZ with clopidogrel may lead to potential reduction of the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and/or cobicistat.  Concomitant administration of EVOTAZ with clopidogrel is not recommended.  
 Use of other antiplatelets not affected by CYP inhibition or induction (e.g., prasugrel) is recommended.  Prasugrel  The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and/or cobicistat. Antiplatelet activity is expected to be adequate.  No dose adjustment of prasugrel is required.  ANTIEPILEPTICS  Carbamazepine  Phenobarbital  Phenytoin  These antiepileptics are expected to decrease atazanavir and/or cobicistat plasma concentrations.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A induction by the antiepileptic.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and these antiepileptics is contraindicated (see section  4.3).  ANTIHISTAMINE AGENTS  Astemizole  Terfenadine  EVOTAZ must not be used in combination with medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A4 and have a narrow therapeutic index.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ with astemizole and terfenadine is contraindicated (see section  4.3).  ANTINEOPLASTICS AND IMMUNOSUPRESSANTS  Antineoplastics  Irinotecan  Atazanavir inhibits UGT and may interfere with the metabolism of irinotecan, resulting in increased irinotecan toxicities.  If EVOTAZ  is co-administered with irinotecan, patients should be closely monitored for adverse reactions related to irinotecan.  24 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Dasatinib  Nilotinib  Vinblastine  Vincristine  Concentrations of these medicinal products may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by cobicistat.  Concentrations of these medicinal products may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ resulting in the potential for increased adverse events usually associated with these anticancer medicinal products.  Immunosuppressants  Ciclosporin  Tacrolimus  Sirolimus  Concentrations of these immunosuppressants may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is inhibition of CYP3A4 by atazanavir and cobicistat.  More frequent therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for immunosuppressant agents when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  ANTIPSYCHOTICS  Pimozide  Quetiapine  Lurasidone  Concentrations of these medicinal products may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  The combination of pimozide, quetiapine or lurasidone and EVOTAZ is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 25 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  CARDIOVASCULAR AGENTS  Antiarrhythmics  Disopyramide  Flecainide  Mexiletine  Propafenone  Concentrations of these antiarrhythmics may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Co-administration with EVOTAZ has the potential to produce serious and/or life -threatening adverse reactions. Caution is warranted and therapeutic con centration monitoring of these medicinal products is recommended if they are used concomitantly with EVOTAZ.  Amiodarone  Dronedarone  Quinidine  Systemic lidocaine  Concentrations of these antiarrhythmics may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Amiodarone, dronedarone, quinidine and systemic lidocaine have a narrow therapeutic window and are contraindicated due to potential inhibition of CYP3A by EVOTAZ (see s ection  4.3). Digoxin (0.5  mg single  dose)/cobicistat  (150 mg multiple doses)  Plasma concentrations of digoxin may be increased when co- administered with EVOTAZ.  
 Digoxin:  AUC: ↔ Cmax: ↑41%  Cmin: not determined  
 The mechanism of interaction is inhibition of P-gp by cobicistat.  The peak concentration of digoxin is increased when co -administered with cobicistat. When co-administering with EVOTAZ, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. The lowest dose of digoxin should initial ly be prescribed.  Antihypertensives  Metoprolol  Timolol  Concentrations of beta-blockers may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is inhibition of CYP2D6 by cobicistat.  Clinical monitoring is recommended when co-administered with EVOTAZ and a dose reduction of the beta-blocker may be necessary.  
  26 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Calcium channel blockers  Bepridil  EVOTAZ must not be used in combination with medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A4 and have a narrow therapeutic index.  Co-administration with bepridil is contraindicated (see section  4.3). Diltiazem 180  mg once  daily  (atazanavir 400  mg once  daily)  Diltiazem AUC ↑125% (↑109% ↑141%)  Diltiazem C max ↑98% (↑78% 
↑119%)  Diltiazem C min ↑142% (↑114% ↑173%)  
 Desacetyl -diltia zem AUC 
↑165% (↑145% ↑187%)  Desacetyl -diltiazem Cmax 
↑172% (↑144% ↑203%)  Desacetyl -diltiazem C min 
↑121% (↑102% ↑142%)  
 No significant effect on atazanavir concentrations was observed. There was an increase in the maximum PR interval compared to atazanavir alone.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Exposure to diltiazem and a metabolite, desacetyl -diltiazem, is increased when diltiazem is co-administered with atazanavir, a component of EVOTAZ. An initia l dose reduction of diltiazem by 50% should be considered, and electrocardiogram monitoring is recommended.  Amlodipine  Felodipine  Nicardipine  Nifedipine  Verapamil  Concentrations of these calcium channel blockers may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is inhibition of CYP3A4 by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Caution is warranted. Dose titration of the calcium channel blockers should be considered. Electrocardiogram monitoring is recommended.  
 Clinical monitoring of therapeutic effect and adverse events is recommended when these medicinal products are co-administered with EVOTAZ.  Endothelin Receptor Antagonists  Bosentan  Co-administration of bosentan with cobicistat may lead to decreased cobicistat plasma concentrations.  
 The mechanism of interaction is induction of CYP3A4 by bosentan.  Atazanavir plasma concentrations may decrease as a consequence of a reduction in cobicistat plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of the rapeutic effect and development of resistance.  
 Co-administration is not recommended (see section  4.4). 27 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  CORTICOSTEROIDS  Dexamethasone and other corticosteroids metabolized by CYP3A.  Co-administration with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids (all routes of administration) that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and development of resistance to atazanavir.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 induction by dexamethasone and CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and/or cobicistat.  Co-administration with corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A, particularly for long- term use, may increase the risk for development of systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. The potential benefit of treatment versus the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects should be considered.  
 For co -administration of cutaneously administered corticosteroids sensitive to CYP3A4 inhibition, consult the Summary of Product Characteristics  of the corticosteroid for condition or uses that augment its systemic absorption.  Corticosteroids primarily metabolised by CYP3A  (including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, triamcinolone).  Interaction not studied with any of the components of EVOTAZ.  
 Plasma concentrations of these medicinal products may be increased when co –administered with EVOTAZ, resulting in reduced serum cortisol concentrations.  Concomitant use of EVOTAZ and corticosteroids that are metabolised by CYP3A (e.g. fluticasone propionate or other inhaled or nasal corticosteroids) may increase the risk of development of systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression.  
 Co-administration with CYP3A -metabolised corticosteroids  is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk, in which case patients should be monitored for systemic corticosteroid effects. Alternative corticosteroids which are less dependent on CYP3A metabolism, e.g. beclomethasone for intranasal or inhalational use, should be considered, particularly for long-term use.  28 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  ANTIDEPRESSANTS  Other antidepressants:  Trazodone  Plasma concentrations of trazodone may be increased when co- administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  If trazodone is co -administered with EVOTAZ, the combination should be used with caution and a lower dose of trazodone should be considered.  ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION  PDE5 Inhibitors  Sildenafil  Tadalafil  Vardenafil  Avanafil  Sildenafil, tadalafil, and vardenafil are metabolised by CYP3A4. Co-administration with EVOTAZ may result in increased concentrations of the PDE5 inhibitor and an increase in PDE5 -associated adverse events, including hypotension, visual changes, and priapism.  
 The mechanism of this interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Patients should be warned about these possible side effects when using PDE5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction with EVOTAZ (see section  4.4). 
 For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, it is recommended that when co- administered with EVOTAZ, sildenafil should be used with caution at reduced doses of 25 mg every 48 hours; tadalafil should be used with ca ution at reduced doses of 10 mg every 
72 hours; vardenafil should be used with caution at reduced doses of no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours.  
 Increase monitoring for adverse reactions.  
 The combination of avanafil and EVOTAZ is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
 Also see PULMONARY ATERIAL HYPERTENSION in this table for further information regarding co- administration of EVOTAZ with sildenafil.  29 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  HERBAL PRODUCTS  St. John’s wort  (Hypericum perforatum ) Concomitant use of St. John's wort with EVOTAZ may be expected to result in significant reduction in plasma levels of cobicistat and atazanavir. This effect may be due to an induction of CYP3A4. There is a risk of loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir (see section  4.3). Co-administration of EVOTAZ with products containing St. John's wort is contraindicated (see section  4.3). HORMONAL CONTRACEPTIVES  Progestin/estrogen  Concentrations of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone are increased when a combined oral contraceptive containing those agents is co-administered with atazanavir. The mechanism of interaction is inhibition of metabolism by atazanavir.  
 Effects of co -administration of EVOTAZ on progestin and estrogen are unknown.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and  hormonal contraceptives should be avoided. An alternate (non- hormonal) reliable method of contraception is recommended.  Drospirenone/ethinyloestradiol 3 mg/0.02 mg  single dose  (atazanavir 300  mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg once daily)  Drospirenone AUC:  ↑ 130%  Drospirenone Cmax: ↔ Drospirenone Cmin: Not calculated  
 Ethinyloestradiol AUC:  ↔ Ethinyloestradiol  Cmax: ↔ Ethinyloestradiol  Cmin: Not calculated  Plasma concentrations of drospirenone are increased following co -administration of drospirenone/ethinyloestradiol with atazanavir/cobicistat. If drospirenone/ethinyloestradiol is co-administered with atazanavir/cobicistat clinical monitoring is recommended due to the potential for hyperkalemia.  LIPID -MODIFYING AGENTS  Lomitapide  The co -administration of lomitapide with any of the components of EVOTAZ has not been studied.  
 Lomitapide is highly dependent on CYP3A4 for its metabolism and co-administration with EVOTAZ may result in increased concentrations of lomitapide.  There is a potential for risk of markedly increased transaminase levels and hepatotoxicity associated with increased plasma concentrations of lomitapide.  
 Co-administration of lomitapide with EVOTAZ is contraindicate d (see section  4.3).  30 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  HMG -Co 
 A reductase inhibitors  Simvastatin  Lovastatin  Simvastatin and lovastatin are highly dependent on CYP3A4 for their metabolism and co-administration with EVOTAZ may result in increased concentrations.  Co-administration of simvastatin or lovastatin with EVOTAZ is contraindicated due to an increased risk of myopathy including rhabdomyolysis (see section  4.3).  Atorvastatin 10  mg single dose  (atazanavir 300  mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg once daily)  Atorvastatin AUC:  ↑ 822%  Atorvastatin Cmax: ↑ 1785%  Atorvastatin Cmin: Not calculated  
 Atazanavir AUC ↓5%  Atazanavir C max ↓7%  Atazanavir C min ↓10%  Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin are increased when co -administered with atazanavir/cobicistat  
 Co-administration of atorvastatin with EVOTAZ is not recommended.  Pravastatin  Fluvastatin  Pitavastatin  Although not studied, there is a potential for an increase in pravastatin or fluvastatin exposure when co-administered with prote ase inhibitors.  Pravastatin is not metabolised by CYP3A4. Fluvastatin is partially metabolised by CYP2C9. 
 Plasma concentrations of pitavastatin may be increased if co -administered with EVOTAZ.  Caution should be exercised.  Rosuvastatin (10  mg single dose)  (atazanavir 300  mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg once daily)  Rosuvastatin AUC: ↑ 242%  Rosuvastatin C max: ↑ 958%  Rosuvastatin C min: Not calculated  
 Atazanavir AUC: ↔  Atazanavir C max:↔ Atazanavir C min: ↑ 6%  Plasma concentrations of rosuvastatin are increased when co -administered with atazanavir/cobicistat.  
 When co -administration is necessary, do not exceed 10 mg rosuvastatin daily, and clinical monitoring for safety (e.g., myopathy) is recommended.  INHALED BETA AGONISTS  Salmeterol  Co-administration with EVOTAZ may result in increased concentrations of salmeterol and an increase in salmeterol -associated adverse events.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  Co-administration of sal meterol with EVOTAZ is not recommended (see section  4.4). 31 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  ERGOT DERIVATES  Dihydroergotamine  Ergometrine Ergotamine  Methylergonovine  EVOTAZ must not be used in combination with medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A4 and have a narrow therapeutic index.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and these ergot derivates is contraindicated (see section  4.3).
 NEUROLEPTICS  Perphenazine  Risperidone  Thioridazine  Co-administration of neuroleptics with EVOTAZ may result in increased plasma concentrations of neuroleptics.  
 The mechanism of interaction is inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or CYP2D6 by atazanavir and/or cobicistat.  A decrease in the dose of neuroleptics metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6 may be required when co- administered with EVOTAZ.  OPIOIDS  Buprenorphine, once  daily, stable maintenance dose  (atazanavir 300  mg once  daily with ritonavir 100 mg once  daily)  Buprenorphine AUC ↑67%  Buprenorphine C max ↑37%  Buprenorphine C min ↑69%  
 Norbuprenorphine AUC 
↑105%  Norbuprenorphine Cmax 
↑61%  Norbuprenorphine C min 
↑101%  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 and UGT1A1 inhibition by atazanavir.  
 Concentrations of atazanavir were not significantly affected.  Co-administration warrants clinical monitoring for sedation and cognitive effects. A dos e reduction of buprenorphine may be considered.  Buprenorphine/naloxone in combination with cobicistat  Buprenorphine AUC: ↑35%  Buprenorphine C max: ↔ Buprenorphine C min: ↑66 % 
 Naloxone AUC: ↓28%  Naloxone Cmax: ↓28%  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by cobicistat.  32 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Methadone, stable maintenance dose  (atazanavir 400  mg once  daily)  No significant effect on methadone concentrations was observed when co-administered with atazanavir. Given that cobicistat has been shown to have no significant effect on methadone concentrations, no interaction is expected if methadone is co-administered with EVOTAZ.  No dosage adjustment is necessary if methadone is co -administered with EVOTAZ.  PULMONARY ARTERIAL HYPERTENSION  PDE5 Inhibitors  Sildenafil  Co-administration with EVOTAZ may result in increased concentrations of the PDE5 inhibitor and an increase in PDE5  inhibitor -associated adverse events.  
 The mechanism of interaction is CYP3A4 inhibition by atazanavir and cobicistat.  A safe and effective dose in combination with EVOTAZ has not been established for sildenafil when used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension. Sildenafil, when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, is contraindicated (see section  4.3).  SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS  Midazolam  Triazolam  Midazolam and triazolam are extensively metabolized by CYP3A4. Co- administration with EVOTAZ may cause a large increase in the concentration of these benzodiazepines. Based on data for other CYP3A4 inhibitors, plasma concentrations of midazolam are expected to be significantly higher when midazolam is given orally. Data from concomitant use of parenteral midazolam with other protease inhibitors suggest a possible 3- 4-fold increase in midazolam plasma levels.  EVOTAZ should not be co-administered with triazolam or orally administered midazolam (see section  4.3), whereas caution should be used with co-administration of EVOTAZ and parenteral midazolam. If EVOTAZ is co-administered with parenteral midazo lam, it should be done in an intensive care unit (ICU) or similar setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage adjustment for midazolam should be cons idered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered.  33 Medicinal products by therapeutic area  Interaction  Recommendations concerning co-administration  Buspirone  Clorazepate Diazepam  Estazolam  Flurazepam  Zolpidem  Concentrations of these sedatives/hypnotics may be increased when co-administered with EVOTAZ.  
 The mechanism of interaction is inhibition of CYP3A4 by cobicistat.  For these sedatives/hypnotics, dose reduction may be necessary and concentration monitoring is recommended.  
 GASTROINTESTINAL MOTILITY AGENTS  Cisapride  EVOTAZ must not be used in combination with medicinal products that are substrates of CYP3A4 and have a narrow therapeutic index.  Co-administration of EVOTAZ and cisapride is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 