4.5 Interaction with other medicinal p roducts and other forms of interaction  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 Effects of esomeprazole on th e pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products  As esomeprazole is one enantiomer of omeprazole it is reasonable to advise about in teractions reported with omeprazole.  
 Protease inhibitors  Omeprazole has been reported to interact with some protease inhibito rs. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these reported interactions are not always known. Increased gastric p 
 H durin g omeprazole treatment may change the absorption of the protease inhibitors. Other possible interaction mechanisms are via inh ibition of CYP2C19.  
 For atazanavir and nelfinavir, decreased serum levels have been reported when given together with omeprazole  and concomitant administration is not recommended. Co -administration of omeprazole (40 mg once daily) with atazanavir 300  mg/ritonavir 100  mg to healthy volunteers resulted in a substantial reduction in atazanavir exposure (approximately 75% decrease in A UC, C max and C min). Increasing the atazanavir dose to 400  mg did not compensate for the impact of omeprazole on atazanavir exp osure. The co -administration of omeprazole (20  mg once a day) with atazanavir 
400 mg/ritonavir 100  mg to healthy volunteers result ed in a decrease of approximately 30% in the atazanavir exposure as compared with the exposure observed with atazanavir 300  mg/ritonavir 
100 mg once a day  without omeprazole 20  mg once a day . Co-administration of omeprazole (40 mg once a day ) reduced mean nelfinavir AUC, C max and C min by 36 –39 % and mean AUC, C max and C min for the pharmacologically active metabolite M8 was reduce d by 75 -92%. Due to the similar 5 pharmacodynamic effects and pharmacokinetic properties of omeprazole and esomeprazole, concomitant  administration with esomeprazole and atazanavir is not recommended and concomitant administration with esomeprazole and nelfi navir is contraindicated (see section  4.3 and 4.4).  
 For saquinavir (with concomitant ritonavir), increased serum levels (80 -100%)  have been reported during concomitant omeprazole treatment (40  mg once a day ). Treatment with omeprazole 20  mg once a day  had no effect on the exposure of darunavir (with concomitant ritonavir) and amprenavir (with concomitant ritonavir).  
 Treatment with  esomeprazole 20  mg once a day  had no effect on the exposure of amprenavir (with and without concomitant ritonavir). Treatment  with omeprazole 40  mg once a day  had no effect on the exposure of lopinavir (with concomitant ritonavir).  
 Methotrexate  When giv en together with PPIs, methotrexate levels have been reported to increase in some patients. In high -dose methotrexate administ ration a temporary withdrawal of esomeprazole may need to be considered.  
 Tacrolimus  Concomitant administration of esomeprazole ha s been reported to increase the serum levels of tacrolimus. A reinforced monitoring of tacrolimus concentrations as well as re nal function (creatinine clear ance) should be performed, and the dose  of tacrolimus adjusted if needed.  
 Medicinal products with p H dependent absorption  Gastric acid suppression during treatment with esomeprazole and other PPIs might decrease or increase t he absorption of medicinal products with a gastric p 
 H dependent absorption. The absorption of medicinal products taken orally such as ketoconazole, itraconazole and erlotinib can decrease during treatment with esomeprazole and the absorption of digoxin can  increase during treatment with esomeprazole.  
 Concomitant treatment with omeprazole (20  mg daily) and digoxin in healthy subject s increased the bioavailability of digoxin by 10% (up to 30% in two out of ten subjects). Digoxin toxicity has been rarely rep orted. However, caution should be exercised when esomeprazole is given at high doses in elderly patients. Therapeutic monitoring o f digoxin should then be reinforced.  
 Medicinal products metabolised by CYP2C19  Esomeprazole inhibits CYP2C19, the major esome prazole metabolising enzyme. Thus, when esomeprazole is combined with medicinal products metabolised by CYP2C19, such as warfarin,  phenytoin, citalopram, imipramine, clomipramine, diazepam, etc., the plasma concentrations of these medicinal products may be  increased and a dose reduction could be needed. In case of clopidogrel, a prodrug which is transformed into its active metabolite  via CYP2C19, the plasma concentrations of the active metabolite may be decreased.  
  Warfarin  Concomitant administration of 40  mg esomeprazole to warfarin -treated patients in a clinical study  showed that coagulation times were within the accepted range. Ho wever, post -marketing, a few isolated cases of elevated INR of clinical significance have been reported during concomitant treatment. Monitoring is recommended when initiating and ending concomitant esomeprazole treatment during treatment with warfarin or other coumarine derivatives.  
 Clopidogrel  Results from studies in healthy subjects have shown a pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacod ynamic (PD) interaction between clopidogrel (300  mg loading dose/75  mg daily maintenance dose) and esomeprazole (40  mg orally dail y) resulting in decreased exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel by an average of 40%, and resulting in decreased ma ximum inhibition of (ADP induced) platelet aggregation by an average of 14%.  
 6 In a study in healthy subjects, there was a decrease d exposure by almost 40% of the active metabolite of clopidogrel when a fixed dose combination of esomeprazole 20  mg + acetyls alicylic acid  81 mg was given with clopidogrel compared to clopidogrel alone. However, the maximum levels of inhibition of (ADP in duced) platelet aggregation in these subjects were the same in both groups.  
 Inconsistent data on the clinical implications of  this PK/PD interaction in terms of major cardiovascular events have been reported from both observational and clinical studies. A s a precaution, concomitant use of esomeprazole  and clopidogrel should be discouraged.  
 Phenytoin  Concomitant administration o f 40 mg esomeprazole resulted in a 13% increase in trough plasma levels of phenytoin in epileptic patients. It is recommended to m onitor the plasma concentrations of phenytoin when treatment with esomeprazole is introduced or withdrawn.  
 Voriconazole  Omep razole (40  mg once daily) increased voriconazole (a CYP2C19 substrate) C max and AUC τ by 
15% and 41%, respectively.  
 Cilostazol  Omeprazole as well as esomeprazole act as inhibitors of CYP2C19. Omeprazole, given in doses of 
40 mg to healthy subjects in a cross -over study, increased C max and AUC for cilostazol by 18% and 
26% respectively, a nd one of its active metabolites by 29% and 69% respectively.  
 Cisapride  In healthy volunteers, concomitant administration of 40  mg esomeprazole resulted in a 32% increase in area under the plasma concentration -time curve (AUC) and a 31% prolongation of el imination half-life(t 1/2) but no significant increase in peak plasma levels of cisapride. The slightly prolonged QTc interval observed after administration of cisapride alone, was not further prolonged when cisapride was given in combination with esomepraz ole. 
 Diazepam  Concomitant administration of 30  mg esomeprazole resulted in a 45% decrease in clearance of the CYP2C19 substrate diazepam.  
 Investigated medicinal products with no clinically relevant interaction  Amoxicillin and quinidine  Esomeprazole has b een shown to have no clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of amoxicillin and quinidine.  
 Naproxen or rofecoxib  Studies evaluating concomitant administration of esomeprazole and either naproxen or rofecoxib did not identify any clinically re levant pharmacokinetic interactions during short -term studies.  
 Effects of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of esomeprazole  Medicinal products which inhibit CYP2C19 and/or CYP3A4  Esomeprazole is metabolised by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. Concomitan t administration of esomeprazole and a CYP3A4 inhibitor, clarithromycin (500  mg twice a day (b.i.d.)), resulted in a doubling of the exposure (AUC) to esomeprazole. Concomitant administration of esomeprazole and a combined inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP 3A4 may result in more than doubling of the esomeprazole exposure. The CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 inhibitor voriconazole increased omeprazole AUC t by 280%. A dose adjustment of esomeprazole is not regularly required in either of these situations. However, dose adjustm ent should be considered in patients with severe hepatic impairment and if long -term treatment is indicated.  
 7 Medicinal products which induce CYP2C19 and/or CYP3A4  Medicinal products known to induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 or both (such as rifampicin and St. Joh n’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) ) may lead to decreased esomeprazole serum levels by increasing the esomeprazole metabolism.  
 
