4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 The likelihood of metabolic interactions is low  due to limited metabolism and plasma protein binding and almost complete renal clearance.  
 Administration of trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole 160  mg/800 mg results in a 40 % increase in lamivudine exposure, because of the trimethoprim component; the sulfamethoxazole component did not interact. However, unless the patient has renal impairment, no dosage adjustment of lamivudine is necessary (see section 4.2).  Lamivudine has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of trimethoprim or sulfamethoxazole. When concomitant administration is warranted, patients should be monitored clinically. Co -administration of lamivudine with high doses of co- trimoxazole for the treatment of Pneumocystis jiroveci i pneumonia (PCP) and toxoplasmosis should be avoided.  
 The possibility of interactions with other medicinal products administered concurrently should be considered, particularly when the main route of elimination is active renal secretion via the organic cationic transport system e.g. trimethoprim. Other medicinal products (e.g.  ranitidine, cimetidine) are eliminated only in part by this mechanism and were shown not to interact with lamivudine. The nucleoside analogues (e.g. didanosine) like zidovudine, are not eliminated by this mechanism and are unlikely to interact with lamivu dine.  
 A modest increase in Cmax (28% ) was observed for zidovudine when administered with lamivudine, however overall exposure (AUC) is not significantly altered. Zidovudine has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lamivudine (see section 5.2).  
 Due to sim ilarities, Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V . should not be administered concomitantly with other cytidine analogues, such as emtricitabine. Moreover, Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V . should not be taken with any other medicinal products containing lamivudine (see sec tion 4.4).  
 In vitro  lamivudine inhibits the intracellular phosphorylation of cladribine leading to a potential risk of cladribine loss of efficacy in case of combination in the clinical setting. Some clinical findings also support a possible interaction between lamivudine and cladribine. Therefore, the concomitant use of lamivudine with cladribine is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
 Lamivudine metabolism does not involve CYP3A, making interactions with medicinal products metabolised by this system (e.g.  PIs) unlikely.  
 Coadministration of sorbitol solution (3.2 g, 10.2 g, 13.4 g) with a single 300 mg dose of lamivudine oral solution resulted in dose -dependent decreases of 14%, 32%, and 36% in lamivudine exposure (AUC
∞) and 28%, 52%, and 55% in the C max of lamivudine in adults. When possible, avoid chronic coadministration of Lamivudine Teva Pharma B.V. with medicinal products containing sorbitol or other osmotic acting poly -alcohols or monosaccharide alcohols (e.g. xylitol, mannitol, lactitol, maltitol).  Consider more frequent monitoring of HIV -1 viral load when chronic coadministration cannot be avoided.  
 Paediatric population  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults . 
 7 