4.5 Interaction with other medici nal products and other forms o f interaction  
 No interaction studies have been performed.  A clinically significant interac tion with other medicinal produ cts used in the treatment of hypoxic respiratory failure cannot be excluded based on the available d ata. There may be an additive effect with INOmax on the risk of developing methaemoglobinemia with n itric oxide donor substances, including sodium nitroprusside and nitroglycerin. INOmax has be en safely administered with tolazoline, dopamine, dobutamine , steroids, surfactant, and hig h-frequency ventilation. 
 The combined used with other vas odilators (e.g. sildenafil) is not extensively studied. Available data suggest additive effects on central  circulation, pulmonary arte ry pressure and right ventricular performance. Inhaled nitric oxide  combination with other vasodi lators acting by the c 
 GMP or c 
 AMP systems should be done with caution. 
 There is an increased risk of m ethaemoglobin formation if subst ances with a known tendency to increase methaemoglobin concentrati ons are administered concomi tantly with nitric oxide (e.g. alkyl nitrates and sulphonamides). S ubstances known to cause increase d methaemoglobin levels should thus be used with caution during therapy with inhaled nitric oxide. Prilocaine, whether administered as oral, parenteral, or topical formulations may cause methaemoglo binaemia. Care must be taken when INOmax is given at the same time as medicinal products containi ng prilocaine.  
 In the presence of oxygen, nitric oxide is rapidly oxidised to derivatives which are toxic to the bronchial epithelium and alveol o-capillary membrane. Nitrogen d ioxide (NO
2) is the main substance formed, and may cause airway infl ammation and damage. There are  also animal data suggesting an  
7 increased susceptibility to airway i nfections upon exposure to low levels of NO 2. During treatment with nitric oxide, the NO 2 concentration should be < 0.5 ppm  in the nitric oxide dose ran ge < 20 ppm. If at any time the NO 2 concentration exceeds 1 ppm, the  nitric oxide dose should imme diately be reduced. See section 4.2 for information on monitoring for NO 2. 
 