4.5 and 4.6). If a hormonal method of contraception is unavoidable, then a condom must be  used in combination with the hormonal method. Effective contraception must be continued for at least 35 days after completing therapy (see section 4.6). It is not known whether lo rlatinib affects female fertility.  
 Lactose intolerance 
 This medicinal product contains lactose as an excipi ent. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactas e deficiency, or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product.  Dietary sodium 
 This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmo l sodium (23 mg) per 25 mg or 100 mg tablet. Patients on low sodium diets should be informed that this product is essentially “sodium-free”. 
 4.5 Interaction with other medicinal pr oducts and other forms of interaction  
 Pharmacokinetic interactions  
 In vitro  data indicate that lorlatinib is primarily metabolised by CYP3A4 and uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)1A4, w ith minor contributions from CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP3A5 and UGT1A3.  
 Effect of medicinal products on lorlatinib  CYP3A4/5 inducers 
 Rifampin, a strong inducer of CYP3A4/5, administer ed at oral doses of 600 mg once daily for 12 days, reduced the mean lorla tinib area under curve (AUCinf) by 85% and C max by 76% of a single 100 mg oral dose of lorlatinib in healthy volunteers;  increases in AST and ALT were also observed . Concomitant administration of lorlatinib with  strong CYP3A4/5 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mito tane, phenytoin and St. John’s wort) may decrease lorlatinib plasma concentrations. The use of a strong CYP3A4/5 inducer with lorlatinib is contraindicated (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). No clinically meaningful chan ges in liver function test results were seen after administration of the combination of a single 100 mg oral dose of lorlatinib with the moderate CYP3A4/5 inducer, modafinil (400 mg once daily for 19 days) in healthy volunteers. Concomitant use of modafinil did not have a clinically mean ingful effect on lorlatinib pharmacokinetics. 10  CYP3A4/5 inhibitors 
 Itraconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4/5, admi nistered at oral doses of 200 mg once daily for 
5 days, increased the mean lorlatinib AUCinf by 42% and C max by 24% of a single 100 mg oral dose of lorlatinib in healthy volunteers. Concomitant ad ministration of lorlatinib with strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors (e.g. boceprevir, cobicistat, itracon azole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, troleandomycin, voriconazole, ritonavir, paritaprevir in combinati on with ritonavir and ombitasvir and/or dasabuvir, and ritonavir in combination with either elvitegrav ir, indinavir, lopinavir or tipranavir) may increase lorlatinib plasma concentrations. Grapefruit products may also increase lorlatinib plasma concentrations and should be avoided. An alte rnative concomitant medicinal product with less potential to inhibit CYP3A4/5 should be consid ered. If a strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor must be concomitantly administered, a dose redu ction of lorlatinib is recommended (see section 4.2).  
 Effect of lorlatinib on other medicinal products  CYP3A4/5 substrates 
 In vitro  studies indicated that lorlatinib is a time- dependent inhibitor as well as an inducer of CYP3A4/5. Lorlatinib 150 mg orally once daily for 15 days decreased AUC inf and C max of a single oral 
2 mg dose of midazolam (a sen sitive CYP3A substrate) by 61% by 50%, respectively; hence, lorlatinib is a moderate CYP3A i nducer. Thus, concurrent administration of lorlatinib with CYP3A4/5 substrates with narrow therapeutic indices, includi ng but not limited to alfentanil, ciclosporin, dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, fent anyl, hormonal contraceptives, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus and tacrolimus, should be avoided since the concentra tion of these medicinal products may be reduced by lorlatinib (see section 4.4).  
 CYP2B6 substrates 
 Lorlatinib 100 mg once daily for 15 days decreased AUCinf and C max of a single oral 100 mg dose of bupropion (a combined CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 subs trate) by 49.5% and 53%, respectively. Thus, lorlatinib is a weak inducer of CYP2B6, and no dose ad justment is necessary when lorlatinib is used in combination with medicinal products th at are mainly metabolised by CYP2B6. 
 CYP2C9 substrates 
 Lorlatinib 100 mg once daily for 15 days decreased AUC inf and C max of a single oral 500 mg dose of tolbutamide (a sensitive CYP2C9 substrate) by 43% a nd 15%, respectively. Thus, lorlatinib is a weak inducer of CYP2C9, and no dose adjustment is re quired for medicinal products that are mainly metabolised by CYP2C9. However, patients should be monitored in case of concomitant treatment with medicinal products with narrow therapeutic  indices metabolised by CYP2C9 (e.g. coumarin anticoagulants). 
 UGT substrates 
 Lorlatinib 100 mg once daily for 15 days decreased AUCinf and C max of a single oral 500 mg dose of acetaminophen (a UGT, SULT and CYP1A2, 2A6, 2D 6, and 3A4 substrat e) by 45% and 28%, respectively. Thus, lorlatinib is a weak inducer  of UGT, and no dose adjustment is required for medicinal products that are mainly metabolised by UGT. However, patients should be monitored in case of concomitant treatment with medicinal produc ts with narrow therapeutic indices metabolised by UGT.   P-glycoprotein substrates 
 Lorlatinib 100 mg once daily for 15 days decreased AUC inf and C max of a single oral dose of 60 mg fexofenadine [a sensitive P-glycoprotein (P-gp) s ubstrate] by 67% and 63%, respectively. Thus, lorlatinib is a moderate inducer of P-gp. Medici nal products that are P-gp substrates with narrow 11 therapeutic indices (e.g. digoxin, dabigatran etexila te) should be used with caution in combination with lorlatinib due to the likelihood of redu ced plasma concentrations of these substrates. 
 In vitro inhibition and induction studies of other CYP enzymes  
 In vitro , lorlatinib has a low potential to cause dr ug-drug interactions by induction of CYP1A2. 
 In vitro studies with drug transporters other than P-gp  
 In vitro  studies indicated that lorlatinib may have the potential to inhibit BCRP (gastrointestinal tract), OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, MATE1 and OAT3 at clinically relevant concentrations.  Lorlatinib should be used with caution in combination w ith substrates of BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, MATE1 and OAT3 as clinically relevant changes in the plasma exposure of these substrates cannot be ruled out.   