4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions 
 Diuretics  Dapagliflozin may add to the diuretic effect of thiazide and loop diuretics and may increase the risk of dehydration and hypotension (see section 4.4). 
 Insulin and insulin secretagogues  Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulphonylureas, cause hypoglycaemia. Therefore, a lower  dose of insulin or an insulin secretagogue may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia when used in combination with dapagliflozin in patients with t ype 2 diabetes mellitus (see sections 4.2 and 4.8).  Pharmacokinetic interactions 
 The metabolism of dapagliflozin is primarily via glucuronide conjugation mediated by UDP glucuronosyltransferase 1A9 (UGT1A9).  
 In in vitro  studies, dapagliflozin neither inhibited cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, nor induced CYP1A2, CYP2B6 or CYP3A4. Therefore, dapagliflozin is not expected to alter the metabolic clearance of co -administered medicinal products that are metabolised by these enzymes. 
 7 Effect of other medicinal products on dapagliflozin  
 Dapagliflozin may increase renal lithium excretion and the blood lithium levels may be decreased. Serum concentration of lithium should be monitored more frequently after dapagl iflozin initiation and dose changes. Please refer the patient to the lithium prescribing doctor in order to monitor serum concentration of lithium. 
 Interaction studies conducted in healthy subjects, using mainly a single-dose design, suggest that the pharmacokinetics of dapagliflozin are not altered by metformin, pioglitazone, sitagliptin, glimepiride, voglibose, hydrochlorothiazide, bumetanide, valsartan, or simvastatin. 
 Following co- administration of dapagliflozin with rifampicin (an inducer of various active transporters and drug- metabolising enzymes) a 22% decrease in dapagliflozin systemic exposure (AUC) was observed, but with no clinically meaningful effect on 24-hour urinary glucose excretion. No dose adjustment is recommended. A clinically relevant  effect with other inducers (e.g. carbamazepine,  phenytoin, phenobarbital) is not expected.  
 Following co-administration of dapagliflozin with mefenamic acid (an inhibitor of UGT1A9), a 55% increase in dapagliflozin systemic exposure was seen, but with no clinically meaningful effect on  
24-hour urinary glucose excretion. No dose adjustment is recommended. 
 Effect of dapagliflozin on other medicinal products  
 In interaction studies conducted in healthy subjects, using mainly a single-dose design, dapaglif lozin  did not alter the pharmacokinetics of metformin, pioglitazone, sitagliptin, glimepiride, hydrochlorothiazide, bumetanide, valsartan, digoxin (a P-gp substrate) or warfarin (S- warfarin, a  CYP2C9 substrate), or the anticoagulatory effects of warfarin as measured by INR. Combination of a single dose of dapagliflozin 20  mg and simvastatin (a CYP3A4 substrate) resulted in a 19% increase in AUC of simvastatin and 31% increase in AUC of simvastatin acid. The increase in simvastatin and  simvastatin acid expos ures are not considered clinically relevant. 
 Interference with 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5- AG) assay  
 Monitoring glycaemic control with 1,5- AG assay is not recommended as measurements of 1,5 -AG are  unreliable in assessing glycaemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use of alternative methods to monitor glycaemic control is advised.  
 Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
 
