4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 The risk  of an interaction between NSAIDs and methotrexate should be considered in patients with a low methotrexate dose, particul arly in th e case of impaired kidney function. If combined treatment is required, the blood count and renal function should be monitore d. Caution should be exercised if NSAIDs and methotrexate are administered within 24 hours, since in this case methotrexat e plasma levels can rise and toxicity be increased as a result. Animal studies showed that the administration of NSAIDs including sali cylic acid resulted in reduced tubular methotrexate secretion and accordingly potentiated its toxic effects.  However, in clinical tria ls in which NSAIDs and salicylic acid were administered adjuvantly to patients with rheumatoid arthritis, no increase in a dverse reactions was observed. Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with such medicinal products  can be continued during therapy with l ow-dose methotrexate, but only under close medical supervision.  
 Patients taking potentially hepatotoxic medicinal products during treatment with methotrexate (e.g. leflunomide, azathioprine, sulfasalazine and retinoids) should be m onitored close ly for in creased hepatotoxicity. The consumption of alcohol should be avoided during treatment with methotrexate (see section 4.4). Regular alcohol consumption and administration of additional hepatotoxic medicinal products increase the likel ihood of hepat otoxic adv erse reactions to methotrexate.  Administration of additional haematotoxic medicinal products  (e.g. metamizole) increases the likelihood of severe haematotoxic adverse reactions to methotrexate.  
 Pharmacokinetic interactions between methotrexate, anticonvu lsants (reduced serum methotrexate levels) and 5 -fluoruracil (increased half -life of 5 -fluoruracil) must be borne in mind.  
 Salicylates, phenylbutazone, diphenylhydantoin (= phenytoin), barbiturates, tranquillisers, oral 10 contraceptiv es, tetracycli nes, amid opyrine derivatives, sulphonamides,  thiazide diuretics, oral hypoglycaemics, doxorubicin and p-aminobenzoic acid displace met hotrexate from serum albumin binding and thus increase bioavailability and hence toxicity (indirect dose inc rease).  
 Probe necid and  weak organic acids can also reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate and thus likewise cause an indirect increase in dose.  
 Antibiotics such as penicillins, glycopeptides, sulphonamides, ciprofloxacin and cefalotin can in indivi dual cases red uce the r enal clearance of methotrexate, so that increased serum methotrexate concentrations can occur, accompanied by haematological and gastrointestinal toxicity.  Oral antibiotics such as tetracyclines, chloramphenicol and non -absorbable br oad-spectrum antibiotic s may reduce intestinal absorption of methotrexate or interfere with the enterohepatic circulation by inhibiting intestinal f lora or suppressing bacterial metabolism.  
 In the event of (prior) treatment with medicinal products  that can have adverse reaction s on bone marrow (e.g. sulphonamides, trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole, chloramphenicol, pyrimethamine), the possibility of hae matopoietic disorders must be considered.  
 Concomitant therapy with medicinal products  that can cause folic acid deficienc y (e.g. s ulphonamides, trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole) can result in increased methotrexate toxicity. Accordingly, particular caution should be exercised in patients with pre-existing folic acid deficiency.  
 Conversely, co -administration of m edicinal products conta ining folinic acid or vitamin preparations containing folic acid or derivatives may impair the efficacy of methotrexate.  
 The combination of methotrexate and sulfasalazine can enhance the effect of methotrexate, as sulfasalazine causes inhibition of folic a cid synthesis. This can result in an increased risk of adverse reactions, although in several studies this was only observed  in individual patients.  
 Ciclosporin may potentiate methotrexate efficacy and toxicity. There is a risk of excessive immu nosuppres sion with risk of lymphoproliferation when the combination is used.  
 The use of nitrous oxide potentiates the effect of metho trexate on folate metabolism, yielding increased toxicity such as severe, unpredictable myelosuppression and  stomatitis an d in case of intrathecal administration increased severe, unpredictable neurotoxicity. Whilst this effect can be reduced by administer ing calcium folinate, the concomitant use of nitrous oxide and methotrexate  should be avoided.  
 Co-administr ation of proto n pump in hibitors such as omeprazole or pantoprazole can result in interactions: co -administration of methotrexate and omeprazole has resulted in delayed renal elimination of methotrexate. In one case in which methotrexate was combined with p antoprazole, renal elim ination of the metabolite 7-hydroxymethotrexate was inhibited and myalgia and shivering occurred.  
 The application of procarbazine during high-dose methotrexate therapy increases the risk of impairment or renal function  
 Excessive co nsumption of c affeine- or theophylline -containing beverages (coffee, caffeinated beverages, black tea) should be avoided during methotrexate therapy as the effect of methotrexate may be reduced by the possible interaction between methotrexate and methylxanthines at the adenosine  receptors.  
 Combination therapy with methotrexate and leflunomide may increase the risk for pancytopenia.  
 Particularly in the case of orthopaedic surgery where the risk of infection is high, combination therapy with methotrexate and immunomodul atory medicinal products  must be used with caution.  
 11 Cholestyramine can increase the non -renal elimination of methotrexate by interfer ing with the enterohepatic circulation.  
 The possibility of delayed methotrexate clearance should be conside red in combina tion with  other cytostatic medicinal products.  
 Radiotherapy during the use of methotrexate can increase the risk for soft tissue or bone necrosis.  
 Methotrexate can reduce the clearance of theophylline. During concomitant therapy with methot rexate, theref ore, seru m theophylline levels should be monitored.  
 Combined administration of mercaptopurine and methotrexate can increase the bioavailability of mercaptopurine, possibly as a result of inhibition of the metabolism of mercaptopurine.  
 In view of its possible effec ts on the immune system, methotrexate can falsify vaccinal and test results (immunological procedures to assess the immune r eaction). During methotrexate therapy, concurrent vaccination with live vaccines should be avoided (see sect ions 4.3 and 4.4). 
 
