4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Effect of patiromer on other medicinal products  
 Patiromer has the potential to bind some oral co administered medicinal products, which could decrease their gastrointestinal absorption. Increased bioavailability of co administrated medicinal products was not observed in the conducted drug-drug interaction studies. As patiromer is not absorbed or metabolised by the body, there are limited effects on the function of other medicinal products.  
 As precautionary measure, and based on the data summarised below, administration of patiromer should therefore be separated by at least 3  hours from other oral medicinal products.  
 In vivo  studies 
 6 Concomitant administration of patiromer did not affect the bioavailability as measured by the area under the curve (AUC) of amlodipine, cinacalcet, clopidogrel, furosemide, lithium, metoprolol, trimethoprim, verapamil and warfarin. For these medicinal products no separation is needed. 
 Concomitant administration of patiromer showed reduced bioavailability of ciprofloxacin, levothyroxine and metformin. However, there was no interaction when patiromer and these medicinal products were taken 3  hours apart.  
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 In vitro  studies  
 In vitro  studies have shown no potential interaction of patiromer with the following active substances: allopurinol, amoxicillin, apixaban, acetylsalicylic acid, atorvastatin, azilsartan, benazepril, bumetanide, canagliflozin, candesartan, captopril, cephalexin, dapagliflozin, digoxin, empagliflozin, enalapril, eplerenone, finerenone, fosinopril, glipizide, irbesartan, lisinopril, losartan, olmesartan, perindopril, phenytoin, quinapril, ramipril, riboflavin, rivaroxaban, sacubitril, sevelamer, spironolactone, tacro limus, torasemide, trandolapril, and valsartan. 
 In vitro  studies have shown potential interaction of patiromer with bisoprolol, carvedilol, mycophenolate mofetil, nebivolol, quinidine, and telmisartan.  
 
