4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Interaction  with  cytochrome  P450 -3A4 enzyme  
 Sufentanil  is primarily  metabolised  by the human  cytochrome  P450 -3A4 enzyme. Ketoconazole,  a potent  CYP3A4  inhibitor,  can significantly  increase  the systemic  exposure  to sublingual  sufentanil  (maximal  plasma  levels  (Cmax) increase  of 19%,  overall  exposure  to the active  substance  (AUC)  increase  of 77% and prolong  the time to reach  maximum  concentration  by 41%. Similar  effects  with  other  potent  CYP3A4  inhibitors  (e. g. itraconazole,  ritonavir)  cannot  be excluded.  Any change  in efficacy/tolerability  associated  with the increased  exposure  would  be compensated  in practice  by an increase  in the amount  of time between doses  (see section  4.2). 
 Interaction with  calcium  channel  and/or  beta blockers  
 5  The incidence  and degree  of bradycardia  and hypotension with  sufentanil  may be greater  in patients  on chronic  calcium  channel  and/or  beta blocker  therapy. 
 Caution  should  be exercised  in patients  on these  concomitant  medicinal  products  and they should  be closely  monitored. 
 Central  nervous  system  (CNS)  depressants 
 The concomitant  use of CNS  depressants  including  barbiturates,  benzodiazepines,  neuroleptics  or other  opioids,  halogen  gases or  other  non-selective  CNS depressants  (e.g. alcohol)  may enhance respiratory depression.  The concomitant use of opioids and gabapentinoids (gabapentin and pregabalin) increases the risk of opioid overdose, respiratory depression and death.  
 When  considering  the use of sufentanil  in a patient  taking  a CNS depressant,  the duration  of use of the CNS depressant  and the patient’s  response  should  be assessed,  including the degree of  tolerance  that has developed  to CNS depression.  If the decision  to begin  sufentanil  is made,  the patient  should  be closely  monitored  and a lower  dose  of the concomitant  CNS depressant  should  be considered. 
 Co-administration of sufentanil with a serotonergic agent, such as Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs), Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRIs), or Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAO Is), may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life threatening condition. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors must not be taken in the 2 weeks before or at the same time as Dzuveo is given. 
 Others 
 Interaction  with  other  sublingually  administered  products  or products  intended  to dilute/establish  an effect  in the oral cavity  were  not evaluated  and simultaneous  administration  should be avoided. 
 
