4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of other medicinal products on alectinib  Based on in vitro  data, CYP3A4 is the primary  enzyme  mediating the metabolism of both alectinib  and its major active metabolite M4, and  CYP3A contributes to 40% − 50% of total hepatic metabolism . M4 has shown similar in vitro  potency and activity  against ALK.  
 CYP3A inducers  Co-administration of multiple oral doses of 600  mg rifampicin once daily, a strong CYP3A inducer, with a single oral dose of 600  mg alectinib reduced alectinib C max, and AUC inf by 51% and 73% respectively and increased M4 C max and AUC inf 2.20 and 1.79 -fold respectively. The effect on the combined exposure of alectinib and M4 was minor, reducing C max and AUC inf by 4% and 18%, respectively. Based on the effects on the combined exposure of alectinib and M4, no dose adjustments are required when Alecensa  is co-administered with CYP3A inducers. Appropriate monitoring is recommended for patients taking concomitant strong CYP3A inducers (including, but not limited to, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifabutin, rifampicin and St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum)).  
 CYP3A inhibitors   Co-administration of multiple oral doses of 400  mg posaconazole twice daily, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, with a single oral dose of 300  mg alectinib  increased alectinib  exposure C max and AUC inf by 
1.18 and 1.75 -fold respectively, and reduced M4 C max and AUC inf by 71% and 25% respectively.  The effect on the combined exposure of alectinib  and M4 was minor, reducing C max by 7% and increasing AUC inf 1.36-fold. Based on the effects on the combined exposure of alectinib  and M4, no dose adjustments are required when Alecensa  is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors. Appropriate monitoring is recommended for patients taking concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitors (including, but not limited to, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole nefazodone, grapefruit or Seville oranges).  
 Medicinal products that increase gastric p 
 H  Multiple doses of e someprazole , a proton pump inhibitor, 40 mg once daily, demonstrated no clinically relevant effect on the combined exposure of alectinib  and M4 . Therefore, n o dose adjustment s are required  when Alecensa  is co-administered with proton pump inhibitors or other medicinal products  which raise gastric p 
 H ( e.g. H2 receptor antagonists  or antacids ). 
 Effect of transporters on alectinib disposition  M4 is a substrate of  P-glycoprotein  (P-gp). As alectinib  inhibits P -gp, it is not expected that co-medication with P -gp inhibitors has a relevant effect on M4 exposure.  
 Effects of alectinib on other medicinal products  
 CYP substrates  In vitro , alectinib  and M4 show weak time -dependent inhibition of CYP3A4 , and  alectinib  exhibits  a weak  induction potential of CYP3A4  and CYP2B6 at clinical concentrations.   
 Multiple doses of 600 mg alectinib  had no influence on the exposure of midazolam (2 mg), a sensitive CYP3A substrate . Therefore , no dose adjustment is required for co -administered CYP3A substrates.  A risk for induction of CYP2B6 and  pregnane X receptor ( PXR ) regulated enzymes apart from CYP3A4 cannot be completely excluded. The effectiveness of concomitant administration of oral contraceptives may be reduced . 
 P-gp substrates  In vitro , alectinib and  its major active metabolite  M4 are inhibitors of the efflux transporter  P-gp. Therefore, alectinib  and M4 may have the potential to increase plasma concentrations of co-administered substrates of P -gp. When Alecensa  is co-administered with P -gp substrates (e.g., 8 digoxin, dabigatran etexilate, topotecan, sirolimus, everolimus, nilotinib and lapatinib ), appropriate monitoring is recommended.  
 Breast cancer resistance protein  (BCRP ) substrates  In vitro , alectinib and M4 are inhibitors of the efflux transporter  BCRP. Therefore, alectinib  and M4  may have the potential to increase plasma concentrations of co -administered substrates of BCRP.  When Alecensa  is co-administered with BCRP substrates (e.g., methotrexate, mitoxantrone, topotecan and lapatinib ), appropriate monitoring is recommended.  
 
