4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 The myelosuppressive activity may be potentiated by previous or concomitant radiotherapy or cytotoxic therapy.  Concurrent use of hydroxycarbamide and other myelosuppressive medicinal products or radiation therapy may increase bone marrow depression, gastro- intestinal disturbances or mucositis. An erythema caused by radiation therapy may be aggravated by hydroxycarbamide.  Patients must not be treated with hydroxycarbamide and anti -retroviral medicinal products concurrently (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).  Fatal and non- fatal pancreatitis has occurred in HIV -infected patients during therapy with hydroxycarbamide and didanosine, with or without stavudine.  Hepatotoxicity and hepatic failure resulting in death were reported during post -marketing surveillance in HIV -infected patients treated with hydroxycarbamide and other antiretroviral medicinal products. Fatal hepatic events were reported most often in pati ents treated with the combination of hydroxycarbamide, didanosine, and stavudine.  6 Peripheral neuropathy, which was severe in some cases, has been reported in HIV -infected patients receiving hydroxycarbamide in combination with anti -retroviral medicinal products, including didanosine, with or without stavudine (see section 4.4).  
 Patients treated with hydroxycarbamide in combination with didanosine, stavudine, and indinavir showed a median decline in CD4 cells of approximately 100/  mm3. 
 Studies have shown that there is an analytical interference of hydroxycarbamide with the enzymes (urease, uricase, and lactic dehydrogenase) used in the determination of urea, uric acid, and lactic acid, rendering falsely elevated results of these in patients treated with hydroxy carbamide.  
 Vaccinations  There is an increased risk of severe or fatal infections with the concomitant use of live vaccines. Live  vaccines are not recommended in immunosuppressed patients.  Concomitant use of hydroxycarbamide with a live virus vaccine may potentiate the replication of the vaccine virus and/or may increase the adverse reaction of the vaccine virus, because normal defence mechanisms may be suppressed by hydroxycarbamide therapy . Vaccination with a live vaccine in a patient taking hydroxycarbamide may result in severe infections. Generally, the patient's antibody response to vaccines may be decreased. Treatment with hydroxycarbamide and concomitant immunisation with live virus va ccines should only be performed if benefits clearly outweigh potential risks (see section 4.4).  
 Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities, including vasculitic ulcerations and gangrene, have occurred in patients with myeloproliferative disorders during therapy with hydroxycarbamide. These vasculitic toxicities were reported most often in patients with a histor y of, or currently receiving, interferon therapy (see section 4.4).  
 
