4.5 Interaction with other medicinal pr oducts and other fo rms of interaction 
 The amount of alcohol in this medicinal product may alter the effects of other medicinal products. 
 In vitro  studies have shown that the metabolism of docetaxel may be  modified by the concomitant administration of compounds which induce, inhibit or are metabolised by (and thus may inhibit the enzyme competitively) cytochrome P450-3A such as ciclosporine, ke toconazole and erythromycin. As a result, caution should be exercised when trea ting patients with these medicinal products as concomitant therapy since there is a po tential for a signif icant interaction. 
 In case of combination with CYP3A4 inhibitors, the occurrence of docetaxel adverse reactions may increase, as a result of reduced meta bolism. If the concomitant use of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithro mycin, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin and voric onazole) cannot be avoided,  a close clinical surve illance is warranted and a dose-adjustment of docetaxel may be suitable during the treatment with the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (see section 4.4). In a pharmacokinetic study with 7 patients, the co-administr ation of docetaxel with the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole leads to a significant decrease in docetaxel clearance by 
49%. Docetaxel pharmacokinetics in the presence of prednisone was studied in patients with metastatic prostate cancer. Docetaxel is metabolised by CY P3A4 and prednisone is known to induce CYP3A4. No statistically significant effect of prednisone on the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel was observed. 
 Docetaxel is highly protein bound (> 95%). Although the possible in vivo  interaction of docetaxel with concomitantly administered medicinal prod uct has not been inve stigated formally, in vitro  interactions with tightly protein-bound agents such as erythr omycin, diphenhydramine, propranolol, propafenone, phenytoin, salicylate, sulfamethoxazole and sodium valproate did not affect protein binding of docetaxel. In addition, dexamethasone did no t affect protein binding of docetaxel. Docetaxel did not influence the binding of digitoxin. 
 The pharmacokinetics of docetaxel, doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide were not influenced by their co-administration. Limite d data from a single uncontrolled stud y were suggestive of an interaction between docetaxel and carboplatin. When combined to docetaxel, the clearance of carboplatin was about 50% higher than values previously reported for carboplatin monotherapy. 
 
