4.5 and 5.1).If dual blockade therapy is considered absolutely necessary, this should only occur under specialist supervision and be subject to frequent close monitoring of renal function, electrolytes and blood pressure.ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should not be used concomitantly in patients with diabetic nephropathy.Pregnancy 
 ACE inhibitors should not be initiated during pregnancy. Unless continued ACE inhibitor therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to alternative treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with ACE inhibitors must be stopped immediately, and, if appropriate, alternative therapy should be started (see sections 4.3 and 4.6).Ethnic differences 
 As with other ACE inhibitors, enalapril is apparently less effective in lowering blood pressure in black people than in non-black, possibly because of a higher prevalence of low-renin states in the black hypertensive population. Paediatric population 
 AQUMELDI is not recommended in children in indications other than heart failure.Caution is advised in children below 1 month of age as they may be very sensitive to the medical product. Data on the use of Aqumeldi in children below 1 month of age in the clinical studies is scarce (n=4). Any signs of adverse events and electrolytes should be closely monitored. Hepatic impairment 
 No data is available for treatment of paediatric subjects with pre-existing liver conditions. Therefore, paediatric subjects with pre-existing liver conditions should only be treated with enalapril under strict monitoring. Treatment of children below the age of 1 month with hepatic impairment is not recommended.Sodium 
 This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
“sodium free”.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 No interaction studies have been performed with AQUMELDI in the adult or paediatric population. Interaction studies with enalapril have only been performed in adults.Blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS)Clinical study data have shown that dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system (RAAS) through the combined use of ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS-acting agent (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).8Potassium sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, or other medicinal products that may increase serum potassium 
 ACE inhibitors attenuate diuretic induced potassium loss. Potassium sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, eplerenone, triamterene or amiloride), potassium supplements, potassium-containing salt substitutes, or other medicinal products that may increase serum potassium (e.g., heparin, trimethoprim-containing products such as cotrimoxazole) may lead to significant increases in serum potassium. If concomitant use of enalapril and any of the above-mentioned agents is deemed appropriate, they should be used with caution and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium (see section 4.4).Diuretics (thiazide or loop diuretics)Prior treatment with high dose diuretics may result in volume depletion and a risk of hypotension when initiating therapy with enalapril (see section 4.4). The hypotensive effects can be reduced by discontinuation of the diuretic, by increasing volume or salt intake or by initiating therapy with a low dose of enalapril.Antihypertensives 
 Concomitant use of these medicinal products may increase the hypotensive effects of enalapril. Concomitant use with nitroglycerine and other nitrates, or other vasodilators, may further reduce blood pressure.Lithium 
 Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with ACE inhibitors. Concomitant use of thiazide diuretics may further increase lithium levels and enhance the risk of lithium toxicity with ACE inhibitors. Use of enalapril with lithium is not recommended, but if the combination proves necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels should be performed (see section 4.4).Tricyclic antidepressants/antipsychotics/anaesthetics/narcotics 
 Concomitant use of certain anaesthetic medicinal products, tricyclic antidepressants and antipsychotics with ACE inhibitors may result in reduction of blood pressure (see section 4.4).Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) including selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors 
 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) including selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors (COX-2 inhibitors) may reduce the effect of diuretics and other antihypertensives. Therefore, the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or ACE inhibitors may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors.The co-administration of NSAIDs (including COX-2 inhibitors) and angiotensin II receptor antagonists or ACE inhibitors exert an additive effect on the increase in serum potassium and may result in a deterioration of renal function. These effects are usually reversible. Rarely, acute renal failure may occur, especially in patients with compromised renal function (such as the elderly or patients who are volume-depleted, including those on diuretic therapy). Therefore, the combination should be administered with caution in patients with compromised renal function. Patients should be adequately hydrated and consideration should be given to monitoring renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy and periodically thereafter.9Gold 
 Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including enalapril.Mammalian target of rapamycin (m 
 TOR) inhibitors 
 Patients taking concomitant m 
 TOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema (see section 4.4).Neprilysin inhibitors 
 Patients receiving concomitant ACE inhibitor and neprilysin inhibitor therapy (e.g., sacubitril, racecadotril) may be at increased risk for angioedema (see section 4.4). The concomitant use of enalapril with sacubitril/valsartan is contraindicated, as the concomitant inhibition of neprilysin and ACE may increase the risk of angioedema. Sacubitril/valsartan must not be started until 36 hours after taking the last dose of enalapril therapy. Enalapril therapy must not be started until 36 hours after the last dose of sacubitril/valsartan (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).Sympathomimetics 
 Sympathomimetics may reduce the antihypertensive effects of ACE inhibitors.Antidiabetics 
 Epidemiological studies have suggested that concomitant administration of ACE inhibitors and antidiabetics (insulins, oral hypoglycaemic agents) may cause an increased blood-glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycaemia. This phenomenon appeared to be more likely to occur during the first weeks of combined treatment and in patients with renal impairment (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Patients taking concomitant vildagliptin therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema (see section 4.4).Alcohol 
 Alcohol enhances the hypotensive effect of ACE inhibitors.Acetyl salicylic acid, thrombolytics and β-blockers 
 Enalapril can be safely administered concomitantly with acetyl salicylic acid (at cardiologic doses), thrombolytics and β-blockers.Ciclosporin 
 Hyperkalaemia may occur during concomitant use of ACE inhibitors with ciclosporin. Monitoring of serum potassium is recommended.Heparin 
 Hyperkalaemia may occur during concomitant use of ACE inhibitors with heparin. Monitoring of serum potassium is recommended.10