4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of other medicinal products on darolutamide  
 CYP3A4  and P -gp inducers  Darolutamide is a substrate of CYP3A4  and P-glycoprotein (P -gp). Use of strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers and P -gp inducers (e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital, St. John's Wort , phenytoin , and rifampicin ) during treatment with darolutamide  is not recommended , unless there is no therapeutic alternative. Selection of an alternate concomitant medicinal product, with no or weak potential to induce CYP3A 4 or P-gp should be considered.  Repeated administration of rifampicin (600  mg), a strong CYP3A4 and a P -gp inducer, with a single dose of darolutamide (600  mg) together with food, resulted in a decrease of 72% in mean exposure (AUC 0-72) and a decrease of 52% in C max of darolutamide.  
 CYP3A4, P-gp and BCRP inhibitors  Darolutamide is a substrate of CYP3A4, P-gp and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP).  No clinically relevant drug -drug interaction is expected in case of CYP3A4, P -gp or BCRP inh ibitor administration. Darolutamide  may be given concomitantly with CYP3A4, P -gp or BCRP inhibitors. Concomitant use of darolutamide with a combined P -gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases darolutamide exposure which may increase the risk of darolutamide adverse reactions. It is recommended to monitor patients more frequently for darolutamide adverse reactions and modify darolutamide dose as needed.  Administration of itraconazole (200  mg twice daily on day  1 and once daily on the following 7  days), a strong CYP3A4 , P-gp and BCRP inhibitor, with a single dose of darolutamide (600  mg on day  5 together with food) resulted in a 1.7 -fold increase in mean exposure (AUC0-72) and a 1.4-fold increase of Cmax of darolutamide.  
 UGT1A9 inhibitors  Darolutamide is a substrate of UGT1A9.  No clinically relevant drug -drug interaction is expected in case of UGT1A9 inhibitor administration.  Darolutamide may be given concomitantly with UGT1A9 inhibitors.  A population pharmacokineti c analysis showed that co -administration of UGT1A9 inhibitors with darolutamide resulted in a 1.2 -fold increase in exposure (AUC 0-72) of darolutamide.  
 Docetaxel  Administration of darolutamide in combination with docetaxel resulted in no clinically relevant  changes in the pharmacokinetics of darolutamide  in m 
 HSPC patients (see section  5.1). 
 Effects of darolutamide on other medicinal products  
 BCRP , OATP1B1 and OATP1B3  substrates  Darolutamide is an inhibitor of breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP)  and Organic Anion Transporting Polypeptides (OA TP) 1B1 and 1B3 . Co-administration of rosuvastatin should be avoided unless there is no therapeutic alternative. Selection of an alternative concomitant medicinal product with less potential to inhibit BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 should be considered.  Administration of darolutamide (600  mg twice daily for 5  days) prior to co -administration of a single dose of rosuvastatin (5  mg) together with food resulted in a pproximately  5-fold increase in mean exposure (AUC) and Cmax of rosuvastatin.  Co-administration of darolutamide  with other BCRP substrates should be avoided where possible.  Co-administration of darolutamide  may increase the plasma concentrations of other concomitant BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3  substrates (e.g. methotrexate, sulfasalazine, fluvastatin, atorvastatin , pitavastatin). Therefore, it is recommended to monitor patients for adverse reactions  of BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates. In addition, the related recommendation in the product information of the se substrates should be followed when co -administered with darolutamide . 
 6 P-gp substrates  No clinically relevant drug -drug interaction is expected in case of P -gp substrate administration. Darolutamide may be given concomitantly w ith P-gp substrates (e.g. digoxin, verapamil or nifedipine). Co-administration of darolutamide  together with the sensitive P -gp substrate dabigatran etexilate did not reveal any increase in exposure (AUC and C max) of dabigatran.  
 CYP3A4 substrates  Darolutamide is a mild inducer of CYP3A4.  No clinically relevant drug -drug interaction is expected in case of CYP substrate administration. Darolutamide  may be given concomitantly with CYP substrates (e.g. warfarin, L -thyroxine, omeprazole).  Administration of darolutamide (600  mg twice daily for 9  days) prior to co -administration of a single dose of the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate midazolam (1  mg) together with food, decreased the mean exposure (AUC) and C max of midazolam by 29% and 32%, respec tively. Darolutamide did not inhibit the metabolism of selected CYP substrates in vitro at clinically relevant concentrations.  
 Docetaxel  Administration of darolutamide in combination with docetaxel resulted in no clinically relevant changes in the pharmac okinetics of docetaxel in m 
 HSPC patients (see section  5.1). 
 Medicinal products that prolong the QT interval  
 Since androgen deprivation treatment may prolong the QT interval, the co -administration  with medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval or medicinal products able to induce Torsade de pointes should be carefully evaluated. These include medicinal products such as class  IA (e.g., quinidine, disopyramide) or class  III (e.g., amiodaron e, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide) antiarrhythmic medicinal products, methadone, moxifloxacin, and antipsychotics (e.g. haloperidol).  
 
