4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Dulaglutide delays gastric emptying and has the potent ial to impact the rate of absorption of concomitantly administered oral medicinal products. In the clinical pharmacology studies described below, dulaglutide doses up to 1.5 mg did not affect the absorption of the orally administered medic inal product s tested to any clinical ly relevant degree. For the 4.5  mg dose , absence of major clinically relevant interactions was predic ted by physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modelling simulations. 
 For patients receiving dulaglutide in combination with  oral medicinal products  with rapid gastrointestinal absorption or prolonged release , there is a potential for altered medicinal product exposure , particularly at the time of dulaglutide treatment initiation .   
  Sitagliptin  
 Sitagliptin exposure was unaff ected when coadministered with a single 1.5  mg dose of dulaglutide. Following coadministration with 2 consecutive 1.5  mg doses of dulaglutide, s itagliptin AUC (0-τ) and Cmax decreased by approximately 7.4 % and 23.1 %, respectively . Sitagliptin t max increased approximately 0.5  hours following coadministration with dulaglutide compared to sitagliptin alone.  
 Sitagliptin can produce up to 80 % inhibition of DPP- 4 over a 24- hour period . Dulaglutide  (1.5 mg) coadministration with sitagliptin increased dulaglutide exposure and C max by approximately 38  % and 
27 %, respectively, and median t max increased approximately 24  hours. Therefore , dulaglutide does have a high degree of protec tion against DPP-4 inactivation (see section  5.1, Mechanism of a ction). The increased exposure may enhance the effects of dulaglutide on blood glucose levels . 
 Paracetamol  
 Following a first dose of 1 and 3 mg dulaglutide, paracetamol C max was reduced by 36 % and 50 %, respectively, and the median tmax occurred later (3 and 4  hours, respectively). After coadministration with up to 3  mg of dulaglutide at steady state, there were no statistically significant differences on AUC (0-12), Cmax or tmax of paracetamol.  No dose adjustment of paracetamol is necessary when administered with dulaglutide.  
 6 Atorvastatin  
 Coadministration of 1.5 mg of dulaglutide with atorvastatin decreased C max and AUC (0-∞) up to 70 % and 21 %, respectively, for atorvastat in and its major metabolite  o-hydroxyatorvastatin. The mean t 1/2 of atorvastatin and o -hydroxyatorvastatin were increased by 17  % and 41 %, respectively, following dulaglutide administration. These observations are not clinically relevant. No dose adjustme nt of atorvastatin is necessary when administered with dulaglutide.  
 Digoxin  
 After coadministration of steady state digoxin with 2 consecutive 1.5  mg doses of dulaglutide, overall exposure (AUC τ) and t max of digoxin were unchanged; and C max decreased by up to 22  %. This change is not expected to have clinical consequences. No dose adjustment is required for digoxin when administered with dulaglutide.  
 Anti-hypertensives  
 Coadministration of multiple dulagl utide  1.5 mg doses with steady state lisinopril caused no clinically relevant changes in the AUC or C max of lisinopril. Statistically significant delays in lisinopril t max of approximately 1 hour were observed on Days  3 and 24 of the study. When a single 1 .5 mg dose of dulaglutide and metoprolol were coadministered, the AUC and C max of metoprolol increased by19 % and 32 %, respectively. While metoprolol t max was delayed by 1  hour, this change was not statistically significant. These changes were not clinically relevant; therefore , no dose adjustment of lisinopril or metoprolol is necessary when administered with dulaglutide.  
 Warfarin  
 Following dulaglutide  (1.5 mg) coadministration, S- and R -warfarin exposure and R -warfarin C max were unaffected, and S -warfarin C max decreased by 22  %. AUC INR increased by 2  %, which is unlikely to be clinically significant, and there was no effect on maximum international normalised ratio response ( INRmax). The time of international normalised ratio response (t 
 INR max) was delayed by 
6 hours, consistent with delays in t max of approximately 4 and 6 hours for S - and R -warfarin, respectively. These changes are not clinically relevant. No dose adjustment for warfarin is necessary when given together with dulaglutide.  
 Oral cont raceptives 
 Coadministration of dulaglutide (1.5 mg) with an oral contraceptive (norgestimate 0.18 mg/ethinyl estradiol 0.025  mg) did not affect the overall exposure to norelgestromin and ethinyl estradiol. Statistically significant reductions in C max of 26 % and 13 % and delays in t max of 2 and 0.30 hours were observed for norelgestromin  and ethinyl estradiol, respectively. These observations are not clinically relevant. No dose adjustment for oral contraceptives is required when given together with dulagl utide.  
 Metformin  
 Following coadministration of multiple 1.5 mg doses of dulaglutide with steady state metformin (immediate release formula [IR]),  metformin AUC τ increased up to 15 % and Cmax decreased up to 
12 %, respectively, with no changes in t max. These changes are consistent with the gastric emptying delay of dulaglutide and within the pharmacokinetic  variability of metformin and thus are not clinically relevant. No dose adjustment for met formin IR is recommended when given with dulaglutide.  
 7 