4.5 and 4.8).  If a patient experiences a hematologic toxicity of Grade 4 neutropaenia (ANC <  0.5 x 109/l) lasting 
≥  4 weeks, then the dose should be reduced by 25% for the next cycle.  
 Any patient who experiences a severe non- hematologic toxicity (US NCI CTC Grade  3 toxicity) on a third occasion, a severe toxicity that does not recover within 14 days (excluding nausea/vomiting) or a life-threatening or disabling non- infectious n on-hematologic toxicity (US NCI CTC Grade 4 toxicity) should be withdrawn from treatment with clofarabine (see section 4.2). 
 Patients who have previously received a hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) may be at higher risk for hepatotoxicity suggest ive of veno- occlusive disease (VOD) following treatment with clofarabine (40  mg/m
2) when used in combination with etoposide (100 mg/m2) and cyclophosphamide (440 mg/m2). In the post-marketing period, following treatment with clofarabine, serious hepatotoxi c adverse reactions of VOD in paediatric and adult patients have been associated with a fatal outcome. Cases of hepatitis and hepatic failure, including fatal outcomes, have been reported with clofarabine treatment (see section 4.8).  
 Most patients receiv ed conditioning regimens that included busulfan, melphalan, and/or the combination of cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation. Severe hepatotoxic events have been reported in a Phase 1/2 combination study of clofarabine in paediatric patients with relapsed or refractory acute leukaemia.  
 There are currently limited data on the safety and efficacy of clofarabine when administered for more than 3 treatment cycles.  
 Excipient with known effect  Each vial of Ivozall contains 70.77 mg of sodium. This is equivalent to 3.08 mmol (or 70.77 mg) of sodium which is equivalent to 3.53% of the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult  and should be taken into consideration for patients on a controlled sodium diet.  
 4.5 Interaction with other  medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 No interaction studies have been performed. However, there are no known clinically significant interactions with other medicinal products or laboratory tests. 
 Clofarabine is not detectably metabolised by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme system. Therefore, it is unlikely to interact with active substances which inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 enzymes. In addition, clofarabine is unlikely to inhibit any of the major 5 human CYP isoforms (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 
2D6 and 3A4) or to induce 2 of these isoforms (1A2 and 3A4) at the plasma concentrations achieved following intravenous infusion of 52 mg/m
2/day. As a result, it is not expected to affect the metabolism of active substances which are known substrates for these enzymes.  
 Medicinal product no longer authorised7 Clofarabine is predominately excreted via the kidneys. Thus, the concomitant use of medicinal products that have been associated with renal toxicity and those eliminated by tubular secretion such as NSAIDs, amphotericin B, methotrexate, aminosides, organoplatines, foscarnet, pentamidine, cyclosporin, tacrolimus, acyclovir and valganciclovir, should be avoided particularly during the 5 day clofarabine administration period (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.2). 
 The liver is a potential  target organ for toxicity. Thus, the concomitant use of medicinal products that have been associated with hepatic toxicity should be avoided wherever possible (see sections 4.4 and 
4.8).  
 Patients taking medicinal products known to affect blood pressure or cardiac function should be closely monitored during treatment with clofarabine (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).  
