4.5 Interaction with other medic inal products and other forms o f interaction 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
 Potential interactions  affecting olanzapine Since olanzapine is metabolised by CYP1A2, substances that can specifically induce or inhibit this isoenzyme may affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine. 
 Induction of CYP1A2 The metabolism of olanzapine may be induced by smoking and carb amazepine, which may lead to reduced olanzapine concentra tions. Only slight to moderate i ncrease in olanzapine clearance has been observed. The clinical consequences are likely to be l imited, but clinical monitoring is recommended and an increase of o lanzapine dose may be considere d if necessary (see section 4.2).  Inhibition of CYP1A2 Fluvoxamine, a specific CYP1A2 i nhibitor, has been shown to sig nificantly inhibit the metabolism of olanzapine. The mean increase in olanzapine C max following fluvoxamine was 54 
% in female non-smokers and 77 % in male smokers. The mean incr ease in olanzapine AUC was 52 % and 108 % respectively. A lower starting dose of olanz apine should be considered in patients who are using fluvoxamin e or any other CYP1A2 inhibito rs, such as ciprofloxacin. A decrease in the dose of olanzapine should be considered if trea tment with an inhibitor of CYP1A2 is initiated.  Decreased bioavailability Activated charcoal reduces the bioavailability of oral olanzapi ne by 50 to 60% and should be taken at least 2 hours before or after olanzapine. 
 Fluoxetine (a CYP2D6 inhibitor), single doses of antacid (alumi nium, magnesium) or cimetidine have not been found to significantly affect the pharmacokinetic s of olanzapine. 
 Potential for olanzapine to affect other medicinal products Olanzapine may antagonise the effects of direct and indirect do pamine agonists. 
 7 Olanzapine does not inhibit the main CYP450 isoenzymes in vitro (e.g. 1A2, 2D6, 2C9, 2C19, 
3A4). Thus no particular interaction is expected as verified th rough in vivo studies where no inhibition of metabolism of the following active substances was  found: tricyclic antidepressant (representing mostly CYP2D6 path way), warfarin (CYP2C9), theoph ylline (CYP1A2) or diazepam (CYP3A4 and 2C19). 
 Olanzapine showed no interaction when co-administered with lith ium or biperiden. 
 Therapeutic monitoring of valproate plasma levels did not indic ate that valproate dosage adjustment is required after the introduction of concomitant ol anzapine. 
 General CNS activity Caution should be exercised in patients who consume alcohol or receive medicinal products that can cause central nervous system depression. 
 The concomitant use of olanzapin e with anti-Parkinsonian medici nal products in patients with Parkinson's disease and dementia  is not recommended (see sectio n 4.4). 
 QTc interval Caution should be used if olanzapine is being administered conc omitantly with medicinal products known to increase QTc interval (see section 4.4).  