4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Inhibitors  of CYP3A4  and UGT1A9/inducers of CYP3A4 In vitro  data indicate that regorafenib is metabolized by cytochrome CYP3A4 and uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase UGT1A9.  
 8 Administration of ketoconazole (400 mg for 18 days), a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, wi th a single dose of regorafenib (160  mg on day 5) resulted in an increase in mean exposure (AUC) of regorafenib of approximately 33%, and a decrease in mean exposure of the active metabolites, M -2 (N-oxide) and M-5 (N-oxide and N -desmethyl) , of approximately 90%. It is recommended to avoid concomitant use of strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 activity (e.g. clarithromycin, grapefruit juice, itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, telithromycin and voriconazole) as their influence on the steady -state exposure of regorafenib and its metabolites has not been studied.  
 Co-administration of a strong UGT1A9 inhibitor (e.g. mefenamic acid, diflunisal, and niflumic acid) during regorafenib treatment should be avoided, as their influence on the steady-state exposure of regorafenib and its metabolites has not been studied . 
 Administration of rifampicin  (600 mg for 9 days), a strong CYP3A4 inducer, with a single dose of regorafenib (160 mg on day 7) resulted in a reduction in AUC of regorafenib of approximately 50%, a 3- to 4-fold increase in mean exposure of the active metabolite M -5, and no change in exposure of active metabolite M -2. Other strong  CYP3A4  inducers (e. g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital  and St. John’s wor t) may also increase metabolism of regorafenib. Strong inducers of CYP3A4 should be avoided, or selection of an alternate concomitant medicinal product, with no or minimal potential to induce CYP3A4 should be considered.  
 UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 substrates  In vitro  data indicate that regorafenib as well as its active metabolite M -2 inhibit glucuronidation mediated by UGT1A1 and UGT1A9  whereas M -5 only inhibits UGT1A1 at concentrations which are achieved in vivo  at steady state. Administration of regorafenib with a 5-day break prior to administration of irinotecan resulted in an increase of approximately 44% in AUC of SN -38, a substrate of UGT1A1 and an active metabolite of irinotecan. An increase in AUC  of irinotecan of approximately 28% was also observed. This indicates that co -administration of regorafenib may increase systemic exposure to UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 substrates.  
 Breast cancer resistance p rotein (BCRP) and P -glycoprotein substrates  Administration of regorafenib (160 mg for 14 days) prior to administration of a single dose of rosuvastatin (5 mg), a BCRP substrate, resulted in a 3.8 -fold increase in mean exposure (AUC) of rosuvastatin and a 4.6-fold increase in C max. 
 This indicates that co -administration of regorafenib may increase the plasma concentrations of other concomitant BCRP substrates (e.g. methotrexate, fluvastatin, atorvastatin). Therefore,  it is recommended to monitor patients closely for signs and symptoms of increased exposure to BCRP substrates. 
 Clinical data indicate that regorafenib has no effect on digoxin pharmacokinetics, therefore can be given concomitantly with p-glycoprotein substrates , such as digoxin, without a clinically meaningful drug interaction.  
 Inhibitors of P -glycoprotein and BCRP/Inducers of P -glycoprotein and BCRP  In vitro  studies indicate that the active metabolites M-2 and M -5 are substrates for P -glycoprotein and BCRP. In hibitors and inducers of BCRP and P -glycoprotein may interfere with the exposure of M -2 and M -5. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown (see also section  5.2). 
 CYP isoform -selective substrates  In vitro  data indicate that regorafenib is a competitive inhibitor of the cytochromes CYP2C8 (K i value of 0.6 micromol ar), CYP2C9 (K i value of 4.7  micromolar), CYP2B6 (K i value of 5.2  micromolar) at concentrations which are achieved in vivo  at steady state (peak plasma concentra tion of 
8.1 micromolar). The in vitro inhibitory potency towards CYP3A4 (K i value of 11.1 micromolar) and CYP2C19 (K i value of 16.4 micromolar) was less pronounced.  9  A clinical probe substrate study was performed to evaluate the effect of 14  days of dosing with 160 mg regorafenib on the pharmacokinetics of probe substrates of CYP2C8 (rosiglitazone) CYP2C9 (S-warfarin), CYP 2C19 (omeprazole) and CYP3A4 (midazolam).  
 Pharmacokinetic data indicate  that regorafenib may be given concomitantly with subs trates of CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, and CYP2C19 without a clinically meaningful drug interaction (see also section  4.4). 
 Antibiotics  The concentration -time profile indicates that regorafenib and its metabolites may undergo enterohepatic circulation (see section  5.2). Co -administration with neomycin, a poorly absorbed antimicrobial agent used for eradicating the gastrointestinal microflora (which may interfere with the enterohepatic circulation of regorafenib) had no effect on the regorafenib exposure, but there was an approximately 80% decrease in the exposure of the active metabolites M-2 and M-5 which showed in vitro  and in  vivo comparable pharmacological activity as regorafenib. The clinical significance of this neomycin interaction is unknown, but may result in a decreased efficacy of regorafenib. Pharmacokinetic interactions of other antibiotics have not been studied.  
 Bile salt -sequestering agents Regorafenib, M -2 and M -5 are likely to undergo enterohepatic circulation (see section  5.2). Bile salt-sequestering agents such as cholestyramine and cholestagel may interact with regorafenib by forming insoluble complexes which may impact absorption (or reabsorption), thus resulting in potentially decreased exposure. The clinical significance of these potential interactions is unknown, but may result in a decreased efficacy of regorafenib.  
 