4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effects of other medicinal products on ospemifene  
 Flucona zole, a moderate CYP3A / moderate CYP2C9 / strong CYP2C19 inhibitor, increased the AUC of ospemifene by 2.7 -fold. These results suggest that co -administration of ospemifene with any medicinal product that inhibits both CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 activity (e.g. fluc onazole) would be expected to increase the exposure of ospemifene in a similar way. Therefore, caution is recommended when co -administering ospemifene with fluconazole. In case of impaired tolerance of ospemifene, the latter should be stopped as long as tr eatment with fluconazole lasts.  
 Ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and moderate P -glycoprotein inhibitor, increased the AUC of ospemifene by 1.4 -fold. This increase is not considered to be clinically significant given the inherent pharmacokinetic var iability of ospemifene . There is therefore no reason to expect that strong 5 CYP3A4 inhibitors would cause a clinically meaningful change in ospemifene exposure. Co-administration of ospemifene  with strong/moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors should be avoided in pati ents who are known or suspected to be CYP2C9 poor metabolizers based on genotyping or previous history/experience with other CYP2C9 substrates.  
 Rifampicin, a strong CYP3A / CYP2C9 enzyme inducer, decreased the AUC of ospemifene by 58%. Therefore, co -admin istration of ospemifene with  strong enzyme inducers like carbamazepine, phenytoin, St John’s wort and rifabutin would be expected to decrease the exposure of ospemifene, which may decrease the clinical effect.  
 Inhibition of UGT1A3, UGT2B7, UGT1A1, or UGT 1A8 may potentially affect the glucuronidation of ospemifene and/or 4 -hydroxyospemifene.  
 In healthy subjects, the absorption of ospemifene is not affected by co -administration of oral omeprazole, a medicinal product that increases gastric p 
 H.  
 Effects of ospemifene on other medicinal products  
 Interaction studies were performed with probe substrates for CYP2C9 (warfarin), CYP3A4 (midazolam), CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 (omeprazole) and CYP2B6 (bupropion). Ospemifene did not cause a clinically meaningful change in the exposure to the substrates, indicating that ospemifene does not affect those enzyme activities in vivo  to a clinically significant extent.  
 Ospemifene and its major metabolite, 4-hydroxyospemifene,  inhibited organic cation transporter (OCT )1 in vitro  at clinically relevant concentrations. Therefore, ospemifene may increase concentrations of medicinal products which are substrates of OCT1 (e.g. metformin, acyclovir, ganciclovir and oxaliplatin).  
 In vitro , ospemifene and 4-hydroxyospemifene inhibited glu curonidation mainly via UGT1A3 and UGT1A9 at clinically relevant concentrations. The pharmacokinetics of medicinal products that are mainly metabolised by UGT1A3 and UGT1A9 could be affected when administered concomitantly with ospemifene and co -administra tion should be made with caution.  
 The safety of using ospemifene concomitantly with oestrogens or other SERMS, such as tamoxifen, toremifene, bazedoxifene and raloxifene, has not been studied and its concurrent use is not recommended.  
 Due to its lipophil ic nature and absorption characteristics, an interaction between ospemifene and medicinal products like orlistat, cannot be ruled out. Therefore, caution is recommended when ospemifene is combined with orlistat. A clinical monitoring of a decrease in the e fficacy of ospemifene should be made.  
 
