4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction   
 Use with other vaccines  Injection sites on separate limbs and separate syringes must be used in the case of concomitant administration.  
 For ages 12 -23 months, Men 
 Quadfi can be co -administered with the measles- mumps -rubella vaccine (MMR) +  varicella vaccine (V) , combined diphtheria -  tetanus -  acellular pertussis (DTa 
 P) vaccines, including co mbination DTa 
 P vaccines with hepatitis B  (HBV) , inactivated poliovirus ( IPV) or Haemophilus influenzae  type b ( Hib) such as DTa 
 P -IPV-HB-Hib (Hib conjugated to tetanus toxoid)  vaccine  and 13- valent p neumococcal polysaccharide conjugate d vaccine (PCV -13). 
 For ages 10 -17 years, Men 
 Quadfi can be co -administered with d iphtheria, t etanus, pertussis (acellular,  component) v accine (adsorbed, reduced antigen(s) content) (Tdap)  and human p apillomavirus vaccine (recombinant, adsorbed) (HPV) .  
 There was no impact on the immune response to Men 
 Quadfi when a meningococcal serogroup B vaccine was co -administered.  
  
5 
  
 Men 
 Quadfi can be administered concomitantly with PCV -13. Lower  h 
 SBA GMTs on day 30 post -dose for serogroup A has been observed  when given concomitantly . The clinical relevance of this observation is unknown. As a precaution in children 12- 23 months of age at high risk for serogroup A disease, consideration might be given for administration of Men Quadfi and PCV -13 vaccines separately.  
 Meningococcal vaccine naïve children aged 10 -17 years had non inferior response for PT and lower antibody responses to FHA, PRN and FIM when Tdap vaccine was administered concomitantly with Men 
 Quadfi and HPV compared  to co -administration with HPV vaccine alone. The clinical implications of the observed pertussis antigen responses also observed with the existing quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccines are unknown. 
 Concomitant vaccines should always be administered at separate injection sites and preferably contralateral.  
 Concomitant administration of Men 
 Quadfi and other vaccines than those listed above has not been studied.  
 Use with systemic immunosuppressive medicinal products  It may be expected that in patients  receiving immunosuppressive treatment an adequate immune response may not be elicited  (see also section  4.4). 
 