4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 As a cholinesterase inhibitor, rivastigmine may exaggerate the effects of succinylcholine -type muscle relaxants during anaesthesia.  Caution is recommended when selecting anaesthetic agents. Possible dose adjustments or temporarily stopping treatment can be considered if needed.  
 In view of its pharmacodynamic effects  and possible additive effects , rivastigmine should not be given concomitantly with other cholinomimetic substance s. Rivastigmine  might interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medic inal products  (e.g oxybutynin, tolterodine) . 
 Additive effects leading to bradycardia (which may result in syncope) have been reported with the combined use of various beta -blockers (including atenolol) and rivastigmine. Cardiovascular beta - blockers are expected to be associated with the greatest ris k, but reports have also been received in patients using other beta -blockers. Therefore, caution should be exercised when rivastigmine is combined with beta -blockers and also other bradycardia agents (e.g.class III antiarrhythmic agents, calcium channel an tagonists, digitalis glycoside, pilocarpin).  
 Since bradycardia constitutes a risk factor in the occurrence of torsades de pointes, the combination of rivastigmine with QT prolongation - or torsades de pointes -inducing medicinal products such as antipsychot ics i.e. some phenothiazines (chlorpromazine, levomepromazine), benzamides (sulpiride, sultopride, amisulpride, tiapride, veralipride), pimozide, haloperidol, droperidol, cisapride, citalopram, diphemanil, erythromycin IV, halofantrin, mizolastin, methadon e, pentamidine and moxifloxacine should be observed with caution and clinical monitoring (ECG) may also be required.  
 No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between rivastigmine and digoxin, warfarin, diazepam or fluoxetine in studies in healthy volun teers.  The increase in prothrombin time induced by warfarin is not affected by administration of rivastigmine. No untoward effects on cardiac conduction were observed following concomitant administration of digoxin and rivastigmine.  
 According to its metab olism, metabolic interactions with other medicinal products appear unlikely, although rivastigmine may inhibit the butyrylcholinesterase mediated metabolism of other substance s. 
 
  7 