4.5 and 4.8). 
 Special caution is necessary in p atients with a hypersensitivity predisposition.  
 Patients with a history of angioedema may be at increased risk of experiencing angioedema during treatment with aliskiren (see sections 4.3 and 4.8). Caution should therefore be exercised when prescribing aliskiren to patients with a history of angioedema, and such patients should be closely monitored during treatment (see section  4.8) especially at the beginning of the treatment.  
 If anaphylactic reactions or angioedema occur, treatment should be promptly di scontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Patients should be informed to report to the physician any signs suggestive of allergic reactions, in particular difficulties in breathing or swallowing, swelling of face, extremities, eyes, lips or tongue. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx adrenaline should be administered. In addition, measures necessary to maintain patent airways should be provided. 
 Paediatric population 
 Aliskiren is a P -glycoprotein (P -gp) substrate, and there is a potential for aliskiren overexposure in children with an immature P -gp drug transporter system. The age at which the transporter system is mature cannot be dete rmine d (see sections 5.2 and 5.3). Therefore, Rasilez is contraindicated in children from birth to less than 2 years and should not be used in children aged 2 to less than 6 years (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). The safety and efficacy of aliskiren in children aged  6 to 17 years have not yet been established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1, and 5.2. 
 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Contraindicated (see section  4.3) 
 P-gp potent inhibitors A single dose interaction study in healthy subjects has shown that ciclosporin (200 and 600 mg) increases C max of aliskiren 75 mg approximately 2.5-fold and AUC approximately 5-fold. The increase may be higher with higher aliskiren doses. In healthy subjects, itraconazole (100 mg) increases AUC and C max of aliskiren (150 mg) by 6.5-fold and 5.8-fold, respectively. Therefore, concomitant use of aliskiren and P -gp potent inhibitors  is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 Not recommended 
 Fruit juice  and drinks co ntaining plant extracts
 Administration of fruit juice with aliskiren resulted in a decrease in AUC and C max of aliskiren. Co-administration of grapefruit juice with aliskiren 150 mg resulted in a 61% decrease in aliskiren AUC and co -administration with aliskiren 300 mg resulted in a 38% decrease in aliskiren AUC. Co-administration of orange or apple juice with aliskiren 150 mg resulted in a 62% decrease in aliskiren AUC or in a 63% decrease in aliskiren AUC, respectively. This decrease is likely due to an inhibition of organic anion transporting polypeptide -mediated uptake of aliskiren by components of fruit juice in the gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, because of the risk of therapeutic failure, fruit juice should not be taken together with aliskiren . The  effect of drinks containing plant extracts (including herbal teas) on the absorption of aliskiren has not been investigated. However, compounds potentially 6 inhibiting organic anion transporting polypeptide- mediated uptake of aliskiren are widely present i n fruits, vegetables, and many other plant products. Therefore, drinks containing plant extracts, including herbal teas, should not be taken together with aliskiren  (see section  4.2) 
 Dual blockade of the RAAS with aliskiren, ARBs or ACEIs  Clinical trial d ata has shown that dual blockade of the RAAS through the combined use of ACE Is, ARBs or aliskiren is associated with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, stroke, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure ) compared to the use of a single RAAS -acting agent (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
 Caution required with concomitant use 
 P-gp interactions MDR1/Mdr1a/1b (P -gp) was found to be the major efflux system involved in intestinal absorption and biliary excret ion of aliskiren in preclinical studies  (see section  5.2). Rifampicin, which is an inducer of P-gp, reduced aliskiren bioavailability by approximately 50% in a clinical study. Other inducers of P-gp (St. John’s wort) might decrease the bioavailability of a liskiren . Although this has not been investigated for aliskiren, it is known that P-gp also controls tissue uptake of a variety of substrates and P- gp inhibitors can increase the tissue- to-plasma concentration ratios. Therefore, P-gp inhibitors may increas e tissue levels more than plasma levels. The potential for drug interactions at the P -gp site will likely depend on the degree of inhibition of this transporter. 
 Moderate P- gp inhibitors
 Co-administration of ketoconazole (200 mg) or verapamil (240 mg) with aliskiren (300 mg) resulted in a 76% or 97% increase in aliskiren AUC, respectively. The change in plasma levels of aliskiren in the presence of ketoconazole or verapamil is expected to be within the range that would be achieved if the dose of aliskiren were doubled; aliskiren doses of up to 600 mg, or twice the highest recommended therapeutic dose, have been found to be well tolerated in controlled cli nical studies . Preclinical studies indicate that aliskiren and ketoconazole co -administration enhances a liskiren gastrointestinal absorption and decreases biliary excretion. Therefore, caution should be exercised when aliskiren is administered with ketoconazole, verapamil or other moderate P- gp inhibitors (clarithromycin, telithromycin, erythromycin, amiodar one). 
 Medicinal products affecting serum potassium levels  Concomitant use of other agents affecting the RAAS, of NSAIDs or of agents that increase serum potassium levels (e.g. potassium -sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing  potassium, heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium. If co- administration with an agent affecting the level of serum potassium is considered necessary, routine monitoring of potassium levels would be advisable.  
 Non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) NSAIDs may reduce the anti -hypertensive effect of aliskiren. In some patients with compromised renal function (dehydrated patients or elderly patients) aliskiren given concomitantly with NSAIDs may result in further deterioration of renal func tion, including possible acute renal failure, which is usually reversible. Therefore the combination of aliskiren with an NSAID requires caution, especially in elderly patients.  
 Furosemide and torasemide  Oral co -administration of aliskiren and furosemide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren but reduced exposure to furosemide by 20-30% (the effect of aliskiren on furosemide administered intramuscularly or intravenously has not been investigated) . After multiple doses of furosemide (60 mg/day) co-administered with aliskiren (300  mg/day) to patients with heart failure  the urinary sodium excretion and the urine volume were reduced during the first 4 hours by 31% and 24%, respectively, as compared to furosemide alone. The mean weight of patients co ncomitantly treated with furosemide and 300 mg aliskiren (8