4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Effect of Zonegran on cytochrome P450 enzymes  
 In vitro  studies using human liver microsomes show no or little (<25%) inhibition of cytochrome P450 isozymes 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2 E1 or 3A4 at zonisamide levels approximately two -fold or greater than clinically relevant unbound serum concentrations. Therefore, Zonegran is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products via cytochrome P450 -mediated mechanisms, as demonstrated for carbamazepine, phenytoin, ethinylestradiol and desipramine in vivo . 
 Potential for Zonegran to affect other medicinal products  
 Anti-epileptic medicinal products  In epileptic patients, steady -state dosing with Zonegran resulted in no cl inically relevant pharmacokinetic effects on carbamazepine, lamotrigine, phenytoin, or sodium valproate.  
 Oral contraceptives  In clinical studies in healthy subjects, steady -state dosing with Zonegran did not affect serum concentrations of ethinylestradio l or norethisterone in a combined oral contraceptive.   
 Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors  Zonegran should be used with caution in  adult  patients treated concomitantly with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate  and acetazolamide, as there are insuff icient data to rule out a possible pharmacodynamic interaction (see section 4.4).  
 Zonegran should not be used as co -medication in paediatric patients with other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as  topiramate  and acetazolamide (see section 4.4 Paediatric  population).  
 P-gp substrate  An in vitro  study shows that zonisamide is a weak inhibitor of P -gp (MDR1) with an IC 50 of 267 
µmol/l and there is the theoretical potential for zonisamide to affect the pharmacokinetics of substances which are P -gp substrates . Caution is advised when starting or stopping zonisamide treatment or changing the zonisamide dose in patients who are also receiving medicinal products which are P -gp substrates (e.g. digoxin, quinidine).  
 Potential medicinal product interactions affecti ng Zonegran  
 In clinical studies co -administration of lamotrigine had no apparent effect on zonisamide pharmacokinetics.  The combination of Zonegran with other medicinal products that may lead to urolithiasis may enhance the risk of developing kidney stone s; therefore the concomitant administration of such medicinal products should be avoided.  
 Zonisamide is metabolised partly by CYP3A4 (reductive cleavage), and also by N -acetyl -transferases and conjugation with glucuronic acid; therefore, substances that c an induce or inhibit these enzymes may affect the pharmacokinetics of zonisamide:  
 
- Enzyme induction : Exposure to zonisamide is lower in epileptic patients receiving CYP3A4 -inducing agents such as phenytoin, carbamazepine, and phenobarbitone. These effect s are unlikely to be of clinical significance when Zonegran is added to existing therapy; however, changes in zonisamide concentrations may occur if concomitant CYP3A4 -inducing anti-epileptic or other medicinal products are withdrawn, dose adjusted or intr oduced, an adjustment of the Zonegran dose may be required. Rifampicin is a potent CYP3A4 inducer. If  11 co-administration is necessary, the patient should be closely monitored and the dose of Zonegran and other CYP3A4 substrates adjusted as needed.  
 
- CYP3A4  inhibition : Based upon  clinical data, known specific and non -specific CYP3A4 inhibitors appear to have no clinically relevant effect on zonisamide pharmacokinetic exposure parameters. Steady -state dosing of either ketoconazole (400  mg/day) or cimetidine (1200  mg/day) had no clinically relevant effects on the single -dose pharmacokinetics of zonisamide given to healthy subjects. Therefore, modification of Zonegran dosing should not be necessary when co -administered with known CYP3A4 inhibitors.   
 Paediatric  population  Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 
