4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction Other antip arkinsonian medicinal products : To date there has been no indication of interactions that would preclude concurrent use of standard antiparkinsonian medicinal products with Stalevo therapy. Entacapone in high doses may affect the absorption of carbidopa. H owever, no interaction with carbidopa has been observed with the recommended treatment schedule (200 mg of entacapone up to 
10times daily). Interactions between entacapone and selegiline have been investigated in repeated dose studies in Parkinson's disea se patients treated with levodopa/DDC inhibitor and no interaction was observed. When used with Stalevo, the daily dose of selegiline should not exceed 10 mg.Caution should be exercised when the following active substances are administered concomitantly with levodopa therapy.Antihypertensives : Symptomatic postural hypotension may occur when levodopa is added to the treatment of patients already receiving antihypertensives. Dose adjustment of the antihypertensive agent may be required.Antidepressants: Rarely, reactions including hypertension and dyskinesia have been reported with the concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants and levodopa/carbidopa. Interactions between entacapone and imipramine and between entacapone and moclobemide have been investi gated in single dose studies in healthy volunteers. No pharmacodynamic interactions were observed. A significant number of Parkinson's disease patients have been treated with the combination of levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone with several active substan ces including MAO -A inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors such as desipramine, maprotiline and venlafaxine and medicinal products that are metabolised by COMT (e.g. catechol -structured compounds, paroxetine). No pharmacod ynamic interactions have been observed. However, caution should be exercised when these medicinal products are used concomitantly with Stalevo (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).Other active substances: Dopamine receptor antagonists (e.g. some antipsychotics and antiemetics), phenytoin and papaverine may reduce the therapeutic effect of levodopa. Patients taking these medicinal products with Stalevo should be carefully observed for loss of therapeutic response.Due to entacapone's affinity to cytochrome P450 2C9 in vitro (see section 5.2), Stalevo may potentially interfere with active substances whose metabolism is dependent on this isoenzyme, such as S-warfarin. However, in an interaction study with healthy volunteers, entacapone did not change the plasma levels of S-warfarin, while the AUC for R -warfarin increased on average by 18% [CI 9011–
26%]. The INR values increased on average by 13% [CI 906–19%]. Thus, a control of INR is recommended when Stalevo is initiated for patients receiving warfarin.Other forms o f interactions: Since levodopa competes with certain amino acids, the absorption of Stalevo may be impaired in some patients on high protein diet.Levodopa and entacapone may form chelates with iron in the gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, Stalevo and ir on preparations should be taken at least 2 –3 hours apart (see section 4.8).In vitro data: Entacapone binds to human albumin binding site II which also binds several other medicinal products, including diazepam and ibuprofen. According to in vitro studies , significant displacement is not anticipated at therapeutic concentrations of the medicinal products. Accordingly, to date there has been no indication of such interactions.
