4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Potential for other medicinal products to affect rufinamide 
 Other antiepileptic medicinal products 
 Rufinamide concentrations are not subject to clinically relevant cha nges onco-administration with known enzyme inducing antiepileptic medicinal products.For patients on Inovelon treatment who hav e administration of valproate initiated, significant increases in rufinamide plasma concentrations may occur. Therefore,consi deration should be given to a dose reduction of Inovelon in patients who are initiated on valproate therapy (see section 4.2).The addition or withdrawal of these medicinal products or adjusting of the dose of these medicinal products during r ufinamide th erapy m ay require an adjustment in dosage of rufinamide (see section 4.2).No significant changes in rufinamide concentration are observed following co -administration with lamotrigine, topiramate or benzodiazepines.Potential for rufinamide t o affe ct oth ermedicinal products 
 Other antiepileptic medicinal products 
 The pharmacokinetic interactions between rufinamide and other antiep ileptic medicinal products have been evaluated in patients with epilepsy ,using population pharmacokinetic modelli ng.Rufina mideappears not to have a clinically relevant effect on carbamazepine, lamotrigine, phenobarbital, topiramate, phenytoin or valproa te steady state concentrations.Oral contraceptives 
 Co-administration of rufinamide 800mg twice daily and a comb ined o ral co ntraceptive(ethinyloestradiol 35μg and norethindrone 1mg) for 14days resulted in a mean decrease in the ethinyl estradiol AUC 0-24of22% and in norethindrone AUC 0-24of14%. Studies with other oral or implant contraceptives have not been conducted. Women of child -bearing potential using hormonal contraceptives are advised to use an additional safe and effective contraceptive meth od(see sections 4.4and4.6).7Cytochrome P450 enzymes 
 Rufinamide is metabolised by hydrolysis, and is not metabolised to any notable de gree by cytochrome P450 enzymes. Furthermore, rufinamide does not inhibit the activity of cytochrome P450 enzymes (see section 5.2). Thus, clinically significant interactions mediated through inhibition of cytochrome P450 system by rufinamide are unlikely to occur. Rufinamide has been shown to induce the cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP3A4 and may therefore reduce the plasma con centrations of substances which are metabolised by this enzyme. The effect was modest to moderate. The mean CYP3A4 activity, assessed as clearance of triazolam, was increased by 55% after 11days of treatment with rufinamide 400mg twice daily . The exposur e of triazolam was reduced by 36%. Higher rufinamide doses may result in a more pronounced induction. It may not be excluded that rufinam ide may also decrease the exposure of substances metaboli sed by other enzymes, or transported by transport proteins suc h as P -glycoprotein.It is recommended that patients treated with substances that are metabolised by the CYP3A4 enzyme system are to be carefully monitored for two weeks at the start of, or after the end of treatment with rufinamide, or after any marked c hange in the dose. A dose adjustment of the concomitantly administered medicinal product may need to be considered. These recommendations should also be considered when rufinamide is used concomitantly with substances with a narrow therapeutic window such as warfarin and digoxin.A specific interaction study in healthy subjects revealed no influence of rufinamide at a dose of400mg twice dailyon the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine, a CYP1A2 substrate.No data on the interaction of rufinamide with alcohol are available.
