4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products  and other forms of interaction  
 Dimethyl fumarate  has not been studied  in combination  with anti-neoplastic  or immunosuppressive  therapies  and caution  should,  therefore,  be used during  concomitant  administration.  In multiple  sclerosis  clinical  studies,  the concomitant  treatment  of relapses  with a short  course  of intravenous  corticosteroids  was not associated  with a clinically  relevant  increase  of infection.  
 Concomitant administration of non -live vaccines according to national vaccination schedules may be considered during dimethyl fumarate  therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71  patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis, patients on dimethyl fumarate  240 mg twice daily for at least 
6 months (n=38) or non -pegylated interferon for at least 3  months (n=33), mounted a comparable immune response (defined as ≥2 -fold increase from pre - to post -vaccination titer) to tetanus toxoid (recall antigen) and a conjugated meningococcal C polysaccharide vaccine (neoantigen), while the immune response to different serotypes of an unconjugated 23 -valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (T -cell independent antigen) varied in both treatment groups. A  positive immune response defined as a  ≥4-fold increase in antibody titer to the three vaccines, was achieved by fewer subjects in both treatment groups. Small numerical differences in the response to tetanus toxoid and pneumococcal serotype 3 polysacchari de were noted in favour of non -pegylated interferon.  
 No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated vaccines in patients taking dimethyl fumarate . Live vaccines might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should n ot be given to patients treated with dimethyl fumarate  unless, in exceptional cases, this potential risk is considered to be outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vaccinating.  
 During treatment with dimethyl fumarate , simultaneous use of other fu maric acid derivatives (topical or systemic) should be avoided.  
 In humans, dimethyl fumarate is extensively metabolised by esterases before it reaches the systemic circulation and further metabolism occurs through the tricarboxylic acid cycle, with no inv olvement of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Potential drug interaction risks were not identified from in vitro  CYP -inhibition and induction studies, a p -glycoprotein study, or studies of the protein binding of dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate (a  primary metabolite of dimethyl fumarate).  
 Commonly used medicinal products in patients with multiple sclerosis, intramuscular interferon  beta-1a and glatiramer acetate, were clinically tested for potential interactions with dimethyl fumarate and did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate.  
 Evidence from healthy volunteer studies suggests that dimethyl fumarate  associated flushing is likely to be prostaglandin mediated. In two healthy volunteer studies, the administration of  325 mg (or equivalent) non -enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid, 30  minutes prior to dimethyl fumarate , dosing over 
4 days and over 4  weeks, respectively, did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate . Potential risks associated with acetylsalicylic acid therapy should be considered prior to co -Medicinal product no longer authorised8 
 administration with dimethyl fumarate  in patients with Relapsing Remitting MS. Long term (>  4 weeks) continuous use of acetylsalicylic acid has not been studied (see sections  4.4 and  4.8). 
 Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, diuretics, non-steroidal anti -inflammatory drugs or lithium) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions (e.g. proteinuria see section  4.8) in patients taking dimethyl fumarate  (see se ction  4.4 Blood/laboratory tests).  
 Consumption of moderate amounts of alcohol did not alter exposure to dimethyl fumarate and was not associated with an increase in adverse reactions. Consumption of large quantities of strong alcoholic drinks (more than 3 0% alcohol by volume) should be avoided within an hour of taking dimethyl fumarate , as alcohol may lead to increased frequency of gastrointestinal adverse reactions.  
 In vitro CYP induction studies did not demonstrate an interaction between dimethyl fumara te and oral contraceptives. In an in vivo  study, co -administration of dimethyl fumarate  with a combined oral contraceptive (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol) did not elicit any relevant change in oral contraceptive exposure.  No interaction studies have b een performed with oral contraceptives containing other progestogens,  however an effect of dimethyl fumarate  on their exposure is not expected.  
 Paediatric  population  
 Interaction  studies  have only been performed  in adults.  
 
