4.5 and 4.8).Care must be taken when using rivastigmine in patients with sick sinus syndrome or conduction defects (sino -atrial block, atrio -ventricular block) (see section 4.8).Rivastigmine may cause increased gastric acid secretions. Care should be exercised in treating patients with active gastric or duodenal ulcers or patients predisposed to these conditions.Cholinesterase inhibitors shoul d be prescribed with care to patients with a history of asthma or obstructive pulmonary disease.Cholinomimetics may induce or exacerbate urinary obstruction and seizures. Caution is recommended in treating patients predisposed to such diseases.The use of rivastigmine in patients with severe dementia of Alzheimer’s disease or associated with 
 Parkinson’s disease, other types of dementia or other types of memory impairment (e.g. age -related cognitive decline) has not been investigated and therefore use in these patient populations is not recommended.Like other cholinomimetics, rivastigmine may exacerbate or induce extrapyramidal symptoms.Worsening (including bradykinesia, dyskinesia, gait abnormality) and an increased incidence or severity of tremor have been observed in patients with dementia associated with Parkinson’s disease (see section 4.8). These events led to the discontinuation of rivastigmine in some cases (e.g. discontinuations due to tremor 1.7% on rivastigmine vs 0% on placebo). Clinical moni toring is recommended for these adverse reactions.Special populations 
 Patients with clinically significant renal or hepatic impairment might experience more adverse reactions (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). Dosing recommendations to titrate according to individual tolerability must be closely followed. Patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been studied. However, Nimvastid may be used in this patient population and close monitoring is necessary.Patients with body weight below 50 kg may experie nce more adverse reactions and may be more likely to discontinue due to adverse reactions.
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 As a cholinesterase inhibitor, rivastigmine may exaggerate the effects of succinylchol ine-type muscle relaxants during anaesthesia. Caution is recommended when selecting anaesthetic agents. Possible dose adjustments or temporarily stopping treatment can be considered if needed.In view of its pharmacodynamic effects and possible additive e ffects, rivastigmine should not be given concomitantly with other cholinomimetic substances. Rivastigmine might interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medicinal products (e.g oxybutynin, tolterodine).Additive effects leading to bradycardia (which may result in syncope) have been reported with the combined use of various beta -blockers (including atenolol) and rivastigmine. Cardiovascular beta -blockers are expected to be associated with the greatest risk, but reports have also been received in patients using other beta -blockers. Therefore, caution should be exercised when rivastigmine is combined with beta -blockers and also other bradycardia agents (e.g.class III antiarrhythmic agents, calcium channel antagonists, digitalis glycoside, pilocarpin).Since bradycardia constitutes a risk factor in the occurrence of torsades de pointes, the combination of rivastigmine with QT prolongation -or torsades de pointes -inducing medicinal products such as 6antipsychotics i.e. some phenothiazines (chlorpromazine, levomepromazine), benzamides (sulpiride, sultopride, amisulpride, tiapride, veralipride), pimozide, haloperidol, droperidol, cisapride, citalopram, diphemanil, erythromycin IV, halofantrin, mizolastin, methadone, pentamidine and moxifloxacin should be obse rved with caution and clinical monitoring (ECG) may also be required.No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between rivastigmine and digoxin, warfarin, diazepam or fluoxetine in studies in healthy volunteers. The increase in prothrombin time induced by warfarin is not affected by administration of rivastigmine. No untoward effects on cardiac conduction were observed following concomitant administration of digoxin and rivastigmine.According to its metabolism, metabolic interactions with other medici nal products appear unlikely, although rivastigmine may inhibit the butyrylcholinesterase mediated metabolism of other substances.
