4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 Antiarrhythmic s inducing torsades de pointes  (class Ia, Ic, III antiarrhythmics) : Co-administration of mexiletine and antiarrhy thmic s inducing torsades de pointes ( class Ia : quinidine , procainamide , disopyramide , ajmaline ; class Ic : encainide , flecainide , propafenone , moricizine ; class III: amiodarone , sotalol , ibutilide , dofetilide , dronedarone , vernakalant ) increases the risk of  potentially lethal torsades de pointes. The concomitant use of mexiletine and antiarrhythmic medicines  inducing torsades de pointes is contraindicated (see section 4.3).  
 Other  antiarrhythmic s (class Ib, II, IV antiarrhythmics ): Co-administration of mexil etine and other class es of  antiarrhythmic s (class I b: lidocaine , phenytoin , tocainide ; class II: propranolol , esmolol , timolol , metoprolol , atenolol , carvedilol , bisoprolol , nebivolol ; class IV: verapamil, diltiazem ) is not recommended, unless exceptionall y, because of the increased risk of adverse  cardiac reaction s (see section 4.4).  
 Pharmacokinetic interactions  
 Effect of other medicinal products on mexiletine  
 Mexiletine is a substrate for the metabolic pathways involving hepatic  enzymes; inhibition or induction of these enzymes is expected to alter mexiletine plasma concentrations.   
 CYP1A2 & CYP2D6 inhibitors  Co-administration of mexiletine with a hepatic enzyme inhibitor ( CYP1A2 inhibitor: ciprofloxacin, fluvoxamine, propafenone ; CYP2D6 inhibitor: propafenone, quinidine) significantly  increases mexiletine exposure and thus the associated risk of adverse  reactions  to mexiletine.   In a single -dose interaction study , the clearance of mexiletine was decreased by 38% following the co -administration of fluvo xamine, an  inhibitor of CYP1A2.  Therefore, c linical and ECG monitoring , as well as adaptation of mexiletine dosage may be indicated throughout and after treatment with a CYP1A2  or CYP2D6  inhibitor . 
 CYP1A2 & CYP2D6 inducers  Co-administration of mexiletine  with a hepatic enzyme inducer ( CYP1A2 inducer : omeprazole ; CYP2D6 inducer : phenytoin, rifampicin)  may increase the clearance and elimination rate  of mexiletine due to an increased hepatic metabolism , resulting in decreased plasmatic concentrations and hal f-life of mexiletine . In a clinical study, co -administration of mexiletine with phenytoin resulted in a significant decrease in exposure to mexiletine (p < 0.003) due to enhanced clearance as reflected in significantly decreased elimination half -life (17.2  to 8.4 hours, p < 0.02).  Therefore, based on the clinical response,  the mexiletine dosage should be adapted during and after treatment with the enzyme inducer.  
 After the oral administration of single ( 167 mg) and multiple ( 83 mg twice a day during 8 day s) doses of mexiletine, total clearance of mexiletine is significantly increased in smokers (1.3 to 1.7 -fold)  due to induction of CYP1A2 , resulting in a correspondingly decreased elimination half -life and drug Interna l Doc R ef: v6.6  
6 exposure.  Mexiletine dose may need to be incre ased if a patient starts to smoke during mexiletine treatment and decreased if a patient stops smoking.   
 Effect of mexiletine on other medicinal products  
 The potential of mexiletine as a drug -drug-interaction perpetrator is unknown. Patients should be carefully monitored if co -treated with other medicinal products with especially emphasis to medicinal products with narrow therapeutic windows.  
 CYP1A2 substrates  Mexiletine is a potent inhibitor of CYP1A2; therefore, co -administration of mexiletine with me dicinal product s metabolised by CYP1A2 (such as theophylline, caffeine, lidocaine or tizanidine) may be associated with elevations in plasma concentrations of the concomitant medicine that could increase or prolong the therapeutic efficacy and/or the adver se reactions , especially if mexiletine is co -administered with CYP1A2 substrates with narrow therapeutic window, e.g. theophylline and tizanidine . The CYP1A2 substrate blood levels should be monitored, particularly when the mexiletine dose is changed. An  appropriate adjustment in the dose of the CYP1A2 substrate should be considered.  
 
 Caffeine  In a clinical study in 12 subjects (5 healthy subjects and 7 patients with cardiac arrhythmias), the clearance of caffeine was decreased by 50% following the admini stration of mexiletine. Increased concentrations of caffeine occurring with the co -administration of mexiletine may be of concern in patients with cardiac arrhythmia. It is, therefore, recommended to reduce caffeine intake during treatment with mexiletine.  
 OCT2 substrates  The organic cation transporter 2 (OCT2)  provides an important pathway for the uptake of cationic compounds in the kidney . Mexiletine may interact with drugs transported by OCT2 (such as metformin  and dofetilide ). If mexiletine and other O CT2 substrates are to be used concurrently,  the OCT2 substrate blood levels should be monitored, particularly when the mexiletine dose is changed. An  appropriate adjustment in the dose of the OCT2 substrate should be considered.  
 Substrates of o ther enzym es and transporters  The potential interactions between mexiletine and substrates of other common enzymes and transporters have not yet been assessed; it is currently contra -indicated to use mexiletine with any substrate having a narrow therapeutic window s uch as digoxin, lithium, phenytoin, theophylline or warfarin  (see section 4.3) .  
 
 
