4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  
 Finerenone is cleared almost exclusively via cytochrome P450  (CYP)-mediated oxidative metabolism (mainly CYP3A4  [90%] with a small contribution of CYP2C8 [10%]). 
 Concomitant use  contraindicated  
 Strong CYP3A4  inhibitors  Concomitant use of Kerendia with itraconazole, clarithromycin and other strong CYP3A4  inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir, nelfinavir, cobicistat, telithromycin or nefazodone) is contraindicated (see section  4.3), since a marked increase i n finerenone exposure is expected.  
 Concomitant use not recommended 
 Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers Kerendia should not be used concomitantly with rifampicin and other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, St John’s Wort) or with efavirenz and other moderate CYP3A4  inducers. These CYP3A4  inducers are expected to markedly decrease finerenone plasma concentration a nd result in reduced therapeutic effect (see section 4.4). 
 Certain medicinal  products  that increase serum potassium Kerendia should not be used concomitantly with potassium -sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, triamterene) and other MRAs (e.g., eplerenone, esaxerenone, spironolactone, canrenone).  It is anticipated that these medicinal products increase the risk for hyperkalaemia (see section  4.4) 
 Grapefruit  Grapefruit or grap efruit juice should not be consumed during finerenone treatment , as it is expected to increase the plasma concentrations of finerenone through inhibition of CYP3A4 (see section s 4.2 and 4.4). 
 Concomitant use with precautions  
 Moderate CYP3A4  inhibitors  In a clinical study, c oncomitant use of erythromycin (500 mg three times a day ) led to a 3.5-fold increase in finerenone AUC and 1.9 -fold increase in its Cₘₐₓ . In another clinical study, v erapamil (240 mg controlled-release tablet once daily)  led to a 2.7 - and 2.2-fold  increase in finerenone AUC and Cₘₐₓ , respectively . Serum potassium may increase, and therefore, monitoring of serum potassium is recommended, especially during initiation or changes to dosing of finerenone  or the CYP3A4  inhibitor  (see section s 4.2 and 4.4). 
 8 Weak CYP3A4  inhibitors  The physiologically based pharmacokinetic ( PBPK ) simulations suggest that fluvoxamine (100 mg twice daily), increases finerenone AUC ( 1.6-fold ) and Cₘₐₓ (1.4-fold). Serum potassium may increase, and therefore, monitoring of serum potassium is recommended, especially during initiation or changes to dosing of finerenone  or the CYP3A4  inhibitor  (see section s 4.2 and 4.4). 
 Certain medicinal  products that increase serum potassium (see section 4.4)  Concomitant use of Kerendia with p otassium supplements and trimethoprim, or trimethoprim /sulfamethoxazole is anticipated to increase the risk of hyperkal aemia. Monitoring of serum potassium is requi red. Temporary discontinuation of Kerendia during trimethoprim, or trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole  treatment may be necessary.  
 Antihypertensive medicinal products  The risk for hypotension increases with concomitant use of multiple  other antihypertensive medicinal products . In these patients, b lood pressure monitoring is recommended. 
 
