4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 When guanfacine  is used concomitantly with CYP3A4/ 5 inhibitors or inducers, plasma concentrations of guanfacine may be elevated or lowered, potentially affecting the efficacy and safety of guanfacine . Guanfacine  can increase plasma concentrations of concomitantly administered medic inal products that are m etabolis ed via CYP3A4/5  (see sections  4.2, 4.4  and 5.2). 
 Guanfacine is an in vitro  inhibitor of MATE1 and the clinical relevance of MATE1 inhibition cannot be excluded. Concomitant administration of guanfacine with MATE1 substrates may result in 8 increases  in the plasma concentrations of these medicinal products. Furthermore, based on  in vitro  studies, guanfacine may be an  inhibitor of OCT1 at maximal portal vein concentrations. Concomitant administration of guanfacine with OCT1 substrates with a similar T max (e.g., metformin) may result in increases in C max of these medicinal products.  
 The pharmacodynamic effect of guanfacine  can have an additive effect when taken with other products known to cause sedat ion, hypotension or QT prolongation (see section  4.4). 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults . However, the outcome is expected to be similar in the indicated paediatric age range.  
 QT prolonging medicinal products  
 Guanfacine  causes a decrease in heart rate. Given the effect of guanfacine  on heart rate, the concomitant use of guanfacine  with QT prolonging medicinal products  is generally not recommended  (see section  4.4). 
 CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 inhibitors  
 Caution should be used when guanfacine  is administered to patients taking ketoconazole and other moderate  and strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors, a decrease in the dose of guanfacine  within the recommended dose range is proposed (see section  4.2). Co-administration of guanfacine  with moderate  and strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors elevat es plasma guanfacine con centration s and  increases the risk of adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, and sedation. There was a substantial increase in the rate and extent of guanfacine exposure when administered with  ketoconazole; the guanfacine peak plasma concentra tions (C max) and exposure  (AUC)  increased 2- and 3-fold, respectively . Other CYP3A4/5 inhibitors may have a comparable effect, s ee table  3 for a list of examples of moderate and strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors, this list is not definitive.  
 CYP3A4 inducers  
 Whe n patients are taking guanfacine  concomitantly with a CYP3A4 inducer, an increase in the dose of guanfacine  within the recommended dose range is proposed (see section  4.2). There was a significant decrease in the rate and extent of guanfacine exposure when  co-administered with rifamp icin, a CYP3A4 inducer. The peak plasma concentrations (C max) and exposure (AUC) of guanfacine decreased by 54% and 70% respectively . Other CYP3A4 inducers may have a comparable effect, s ee table  3 for a list of examples of CYP3 A4/5 in ducers , this list is not definitive.  
 Table  3 
 Moderate CYP3A4/5 inhibitors  Strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors  CYP3A4 inducers  Aprepitant  Boceprevir  Bosentan  Atazanavir  Chloramphenicol  Carbamaz epine Ciprofloxacin  Clarithromycin  Efavirenz  Crizotinib  Indinavir  Etravirine  Diltiazem  Itraconazole  Modafinil  Erythromycin  Ketoconazole  Nevirapine  Fluconazole  Posaconazole  Oxcarbazepine  Fosamprenavir  Ritonavir  Phenobarbital  Imatinib  Saquinavir  Phenytoin  Verapamil  Suboxone  Primidone  Grapefruit juice  Telaprevi r Rifabutin  
 Telithromycin  Rifampicin  
  St. John’s wort See section  4.2 for further dosing recommendations  9  Valproic acid 
 Co-administration of guanfacine  and valproic acid can result in increased concentrations of valproic acid. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown, although both guanfacine and valproic acid are metabolised by glucuronidation, possibly resulting in competitive inhibition. When guanfacine  is co-administered with valproic acid, patients should be monitored  for potential additive central nervous system (CNS) effects and consideration should be given to the monitoring of serum valproic acid concentrations. Adjustments in the dose of valproic acid and guanfacine  may be indicated when co -administered.  
 Antihypertensive medicinal produ cts 
 Caution  should be used  when guanfacine  is administered concomitantly with antihypertensive medicinal products , due to the potential for additive pharmacodynamic effects such as hypotension and syncope  (see section  4.4). 
 CNS depressant medicinal produ cts 
 Caution should be used  when guanfacine  is administered concomitantly with CNS depressant medicinal products (e.g., alcohol, sedatives, hypnotics, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and antipsychotics) due to the potential for additive pharmacodynamic effe cts such as sedation and somnolence  (see section  4.4). 
 Oral methylphenidate  
 In an interaction study, neither guanfacine  nor O smotic Release Oral System (OROS) -methylphenidate HCl extended -release were found to affect the pharmacokinetics of the other medicinal products  when  taken in combination . 
 Lisdexamfetamine dimesylate  
 In a drug interaction study, administration of guanfacine  in combination with lisdexamfetamine dimesylate induced a 19% increase in guanfacine maximum plasma concentrations, whereas e xposure (AUC) was increased by 7%.  These small changes are not expect ed to be clinically meaningful. In this study, no effect on d -amphetamine exposure was observed following combination  of guanfacine  and lisdexamfetamine dimesylate.  
 Food interactions  
 Guanfacine  should not be  administered with high fat meals due to increased exposure , as it has been shown that high fat meals  have a significant effect on the absorption of guanfacine  (see section 4.2) . 
 
