4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Cobicistat  is a strong mechanism -based CYP3A inhibitor and is a CYP3A substrate.  Increased plasma concentrations of medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP3A (including a tazanavir and darunavir) are observed on co -administration with cobicistat.  Co-administration of cobicistat with medicinal products that have active metabolite(s) formed by CYP3A may result in reduced plasma concentrations of these active metabolite(s) (see section 4.4). 
 Cobicistat is a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor and is metabolised to a minor extent by CYP2D6.  Co-administration with cobicistat can increase plasma concentrations of medicinal products that are metabolised by CYP2D6 (see sections  4.3 and 4.4). 
 Cobicistat inhibits the transporters P-gp, BCRP, MATE1, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3.  Co-administration of Tybost with medicinal products that are substrates of these transporters can result in increased plasma concentrations of the co -administered medicinal products (see section  4.4). 
 Cobicistat  is not expected to inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 or CYP2C19. 
 Cobicistat is not expected to induce CYP3A4 or P-gp ( MDR1 ). 
 Unlike ritonavir, cobicistat is not an inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 or UGT1A1 .  If switching pharmacoenhancer from ritonavir to cobicistat, caution is required during the first two weeks of treatment with Tybost, particularly if doses of any concomitantly administered medicinal product s have been  titrated or adjusted during use of ritonavir as a pharmacoenhancer (see section  4.4). 
 Concomitant use contraindicated  
 Medicinal products that are extensively metaboli sed by CYP3A and have hi gh first pass metabolism appear to be the most susceptible to large increases in exposure when co -administered with cobicistat .  Co-administration of cobicistat with medicinal products such as dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, ergometrine, oral ly administered midazolam, triazolam, amiodarone, quinidine, pimozide, lurasidone,  alfuzosin , simvastatin,  lovastatin, and sildenafil wh ich are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life -threatening events is contraindicated  (see section  4.3). 
 Co-administration of cobicistat with medicinal products that are strong induce rs of CYP3A (such as St. John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum), rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenyt oin) may 7 result in decreased plasma concentrations of cobicistat and consequently that of atazanavir or darunavir being boosted, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and possible development of resistance (see section  4.3). 
 Concomitant use not recommended  
 Co-administration of cobicistat with medicinal products that are moderate to weak induce rs of CYP3A may result in decreased plasma concentration of cobicistat  and consequently that of atazanavir or darunavir being boosted, leading to loss of t herapeutic effect and possible development of resistance.  Some examples include, but are not limited to, etravirine, efavirenz, nevirapine,  and bosentan  (see Table  3). 
 Co-administration of cobicistat with medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentration of cobicistat.  Some examples include, but are not limited to , itraconazole, ketoconazole, and voriconazole  (see Table 3). 
 Cobicistat co-administered with atazanavir or darunavir should not be used in combination w ith another antiretroviral agent that requires pharmacoenhancement by means of co -administration with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 to reach the desired therapeutic plasma concentrations (i.e., another protease inhibitor).  Dosing recommendations for such combinations have not been established and may result in decreased plasma concentrations of atazanavir, darunavir and/or the other antiretroviral agents that require pharmacoenhancement leading to loss of antiviral activity and development of resistance.  
 Other i nteractions 
 Interactions of cobicistat and potential co -administ ered medicinal products are listed in Table 3 below (increase is indicated as “↑”, decrease as “↓”, no change as “↔”).  These interactions are based on either drug interaction studies or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious and/or life -threatening events or loss of efficacy . 
 For additional drug-drug interactions with atazanavir or darunavir , consult their respective Summary of Product Characteristics when using Tybost . 
 Table  3: Interactions between cobicistat  and other medicinal products  
 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on drug levels  Mean percent change in AUC, C max, C min Recommendation concerning co-administration with cobicistat 
150 mg and atazanavir or darunavir  ANTIRETROVIRALS  Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs)  Tenofovir  disoproxil1  Co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil with cobicistat  is expected to increase tenofovir  plasma concentration . 
 Tenofovir : AUC: ↑ 23% Cmax: ↑ 55% This increase is not considered  to be  clinically relevant and do es not necessitate dose adjustment of tenofovir  disoproxil . Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs)  Efavirenz  (600 mg single dose)  Co-administration of efavirenz and cobicistat  is expected to decrease cobicistat plasma concentrations . 
 Efavirenz: AUC: ↔ Cmax: ↓ 13% Cmin: ND  Atazanavir or darunavir plasma concentrations may decrease as a consequence of a reduction in cobicistat plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance.  Co-administration is not recommended  (see section  4.4). 8 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on drug levels  Mean percent change in AUC, C max, C min Recommendation concerning co-administration with cobicistat 
150 mg and atazanavir or darunavir  Etravirine  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration of etravirine and cobicistat  is expected to decrease cobicistat plasma concentrations . Atazanavir or darunavir plasma concentrations may decrease as a consequence of a reduction in cobicistat plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of res istance .  Co-administration is not recommended  (see section  4.4). Nevirapine  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration of nevirapine and cobicistat  is expected to decrease cobicistat  plasma concentrations . 
 Nevirapine plasma concentrations may be increased when co- administered with cobicistat . Atazanavir or darunavir plasma concentrations may decrease as a consequence of a reduction in cobicistat plasma concentrations , which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance .  Co-administration is not recommended  (see section  4.4). Rilpivirine  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration of rilpivirine and cobicistat  is expected to increase the plasma concentration of rilpivirine . 
 Rilpivirine is not expected to affect the plasma concentration of cobicistat . No dose adjustment of rilpivirine is required when atazanavir/cobicistat or darunavir/cobicistat are used concomitantly with rilpivirine.  CCR5 Antagonists  Maraviroc  Interaction not studied.  
 Maraviroc is a substrate of CYP3A and its plasma concentration increases when co-administered with potent CYP3A inhibitors . When co -administering maraviroc and Tybost  patients should receive maraviroc 
150 mg twice daily .  For further details, consult the Summary of Product Characteristics for maraviroc.  ANTI -INFECTIVES  Antifungals  Ketoconazole  Interaction not studied.  
 Concentrations of ketoconazole and/or cobicistat may increase with co -administration of cobicistat . When administering ketoconazole with Tybost , the maximum daily dose of ketoconazole should not exceed 200 mg per day.  Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring is recommended during co-administration . Itraconazole  Voriconazole  Posaconazole  Fluconazole  Concentrations of itraconazole , fluconazole  and posaconazole  may be increased when co-administered with cobicistat . 
 Concentrations of voriconazole may increase or decrease when co-administered with cobicistat . Clinical monitoring is recommended  upon co-administration with Tybost . 
 When administering with cobicistat , the maximum daily dose of itraconazole should not exceed 200 mg per day. 
 Voriconazole should not be used unless the possible benefit is considered to outweigh the risks associated with the unpredictable effect on plasma concentrations.  9 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on drug levels  Mean percent change in AUC, C max, C min Recommendation concerning co-administration with cobicistat 
150 mg and atazanavir or darunavir  Antimycobacterial s Rifabutin (150  mg every other day)/Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)/Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)  Co-administration of rifabutin , a potent CYP3A inducer, may significantly decrease cobicistat plasma concentrations.  
 Cobicistat : AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔ Cmin: ↓ 66%  
 Rifabutin:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔ Cmin: ↔ 
 25-O-desacetyl -rifabutin:  AUC: ↑ 525%  Cmax: ↑ 384%  Cmin: ↑ 394%  Co-administration of cobicistat and rifabutin is not  recommended.   If the combination is needed, the recommended dose of rifabutin is 150  mg 3  times per week on set days (for example Monday-Wednesd ay-Friday).  Increased monitoring for rifabutin -associated adverse reactions including neutropenia and uveitis is warranted due to an expected increase in exposure to desacetyl -rifabutin.  Further dose reduction of rifabutin has not been studied.  It should be kept in mind that a twice weekly dose of 150  mg may not provide an optimal exposure to rifabutin thus leading to a risk of rifabutin  resistance and a treatment failure.  Macrolide antibiotics  Clarithromycin  Interaction not studied.  
 Concentrations of clarithromycin may be increased upon co-administration with cobicistat . Concentrations of clarithromycin may be increased upon co -administration of  cobicistat .  Alternative antibiotics should be considered for co -administration with atazanavir/cobicistat.   Consult atazanavir Summary of Product Charac teristics  for dosing recommendation s. When clarithromycin is co -administered with darunavir/cobicistat, consult the  darunavir Summary of Product Characteristics  for dosing recommendations.  ANTI -NEOPLASTICS  Dasatinib  Nilotinib  Vinblastine  Vincristine  Interaction not studied.  
 Concentrations of these medicinal products may be increased when co- administered with cobicistat . Concentrations of these medicinal products may be increased when co-administered with Tybost  resulting in the potential for increased adverse events usually associated with these anticancer medicinal products.  10 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on drug levels  Mean percent change in AUC, C max, C min Recommendation concerning co-administration with cobicistat 
150 mg and atazanavir or darunavir  GLUCOCORTICOIDS  Corticosteroids  Corticosteroids primarily metabolised by CYP3A (including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone , mometasone,  prednisone , triamcinolone).  Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentrations of these medicinal products may be increased when co- administered with cobicistat, resulting in reduced serum cortisol concentrations.  Concomitant use of cobicistat  and corticosteroids that are metabolised by CYP3A (e.g. fluticasone propionate or other inhaled or nasal corticosteroids) may  increase the risk of development of systemic corticosteroid effects, including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression . 
 Co-administration with  CYP3A -metabolised  corticosteroids is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs t he risk , in which case patients should be monitored for systemic corticosteroid  effects .  Alternative corticosteroids which are less dependent on CYP3A metabolism e.g. beclomethasone for  intranasal or inhalational use  should be considered, particularly for  long- term use.  
 For coadministration of cutaneously- administered corticosteroids sensitive to CYP3A inhibition, refer to the prescribing information of the corticosteroid for conditions or uses that augment its systemic absorption.  ORAL ANTI -DIABETICS  Metformin  Interaction not studied.  
 Cobicistat reversibly inhibits MATE1, and concentrations of metformin may be increased when co -administ ered with cobicistat . Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin is recommended in patients who are taking Tybost.  NARCOTIC ANALGESICS  Methadone  Methadone:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔ Cmin: ↔ No dose adjustment of methadone is required.  Buprenorphine/ Naloxone  Buprenorphine:  AUC: ↑ 35%  Cmax: ↔  Cmin: ↑ 66%  
 Naloxone:  AUC: ↓ 28%  Cmax: ↓ 28%  No dose adjustment of cobicistat is required.  11 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on drug levels  Mean percent change in AUC, C max, C min Recommendation concerning co-administration with cobicistat 
150 mg and atazanavir or darunavir  ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES  Drospirenone/Ethinyl oestradiol (3 mg/0.02 mg single dose )/ Darunavir (800  mg once daily)/Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)  
 Drospirenone:  AUC: ↑ 58%  Cmax: ↔ Cmin: NC 
 Ethinyl oestradiol:  AUC: ↓ 30% Cmax: ↔ Cmin: NC Plasma concentrations of ethinyl oestradiol are decreased following co -administration of drospirenone/ethinyl oestradiol with darunavir/cobicistat.  Alternative or additional contraceptive measures are recommended when oestrogen- based contraceptives are co -administered with darunavir/cobicistat.  
 Plasma concentrations of drospirenone are increased following  co-administ ration of drospirenone/ethinyl oestradiol  with darunavir/cobicistat.  If drospirenone/ethinyl oestradiol is co-administered with darunavir/cobicistat clinical monitoring is recommended due to the potential for hyperkalemia.  
 Drospirenone/Ethinyl oestradiol (3 mg/0.02 mg single dose)/Atazanavir (300  mg once daily)/Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)  
 Drospirenone:  AUC: ↑ 130%  Cmax: ↔ Cmin: NC 
 Ethinyl oestradiol:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔ Cmin: NC  Plasma concentrations of drospirenone are increased following  co-administ ration  of drospirenone /ethinyl oestradiol with atazanavir/cobicistat.  If drospirenone/ethinyl oestradiol is co-administered with atazanavir/cobicistat clinical monitoring is recommende d due to the potential for hyperkalemia.  
 Norgestimate/Ethinyl oestradiol  Interaction not studied.  
 Concentrations of norgestimate may be affected on co-administration with cobicistat.  Data are not available to make recommendations on the use of darunavir/cobicistat or atazanavir/cobicistat with other oral contraceptives than drospirenone/ethinyl oestradiol.  
 Alternative forms of contraception should be considered.  ANTIARRHYTHMICS  Disopyramide  Flecainide  Systemic lidocaine  Mexiletine  Propafenone  Interaction not studied.  
 Concentrations of these antiarrhythmic medicinal products may be increased when co -administered with  cobicistat . Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring is recommended upon co-administration of these antiarrhythmic medicinal products with Tybost.  Digoxin (0.5  mg single dose)/ Cobicistat (150  mg multiple doses)  Plasma concentrations of  digoxin may be increased when co-administered with  cobicistat . 
 Digoxin:  AUC: ↔ Cmax: ↑ 41% Cmin: ND  The peak concentration of digoxin is increased when co- administered with Tybost .  The lowest dose of digoxin should initially be prescribed.  The serum digoxin concentrations should be monitored and used for titration of digoxin dose to obtain the desired clinical effects.  ANTI -HYPERTENSIVES  Metoprolol  Timolol  Interaction not studied.  
 Concentrations of beta -blockers may be increased when co-administered with cobicistat . Clinical monitoring is recommended and a dose reduction may be necessary when these beta- blockers are co -administered with Tybost . 12 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on drug levels  Mean percent change in AUC, C max, C min Recommendation concerning co-administration with cobicistat 
150 mg and atazanavir or darunavir  Amlodipine  Diltiazem  Felodipine  Nicardipine  Nifedipine  Verapamil  Interaction not studied.  
 Concentrations of calcium channel blockers may be increased when co- administered with cobicistat . Clinical monitoring of therapeutic effect and adverse e vents  is recommended when these medicinal products  are co-administered with Tybost . ENDOTHELIN RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS  Bosentan  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration of bosentan with cobicistat  may lead to decreased cobicistat plasma concentrations . Atazanavir or darunavir plasma concentrations may decrease as a consequence of a reduction in cobicistat plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of t herapeutic effect and development of resistance.  
 Co-administration is not recommended  (see section  4.4). ANTICOAGULANTS  Dabigatran  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration with Tybost may increase dabigatran plasma concentrations with similar effects as seen with other strong P-gp inhibitors.  Co-administration of cobicistat  with dabigatran is contraindicated.  Apixaban  Rivaroxaban  Edoxaban  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration with cobicistat may result in increased plasma concentrations of the DOAC, which may lead to an increased bleeding risk.  Co-administration of apixaban, rivaroxaban or edoxaban is not recommended with Tybost.  Warfarin  Interaction not studied.  
 Concentrations of warfarin may be affected upon co-administ ration with cobicistat . It is recommended that the international normalised ratio (INR) be monitored upon co-administration with Tybost . 13 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on drug levels  Mean percent change in AUC, C max, C min Recommendation concerning co-administration with cobicistat 
150 mg and atazanavir or darunavir  ANTIPLATELETS  Clopidogrel  
 Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration of clopidogrel with cobicistat is expected to decrease clopidogrel active metabolite plasma concentration s, which may reduce the antiplatelet activity of clopidogre l.  Co-administration of clopidogrel with cobicistat  is not recommended.  
  Prasugrel  Interaction not studied.  
 Cobicistat is not expected to have a clinically relevant effect on plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of prasugrel.  No dose adjustment of prasugrel is required.  ANTICONVULSANTS  Carbamazepine (200  mg twice daily)/Elvitegravir (150  mg once daily)/Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)  Co-administration of carbamazepine, a potent CYP3A inducer, may significantly decrease cobicistat plasma concentrations.  
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↓ 84%  Cmax: ↓ 72%  Cmin: ↓ 90%  
 Carbamazepine:  AUC: ↑ 43%  Cmax: ↑ 40%  Cmin: ↑ 51%  
 Carbamazepine- 10,11 -epoxide: AUC: ↓ 35%  Cmax: ↓ 27%  Cmin: ↓ 41%  Carbamazepine, a potent CYP3A inducer, decreases cobicistat plasma concentrations and that of atazanavir or darunavir, which may result in loss of therapeut ic effect and development of resistance.  Co-administration of cobicistat with carbamazepine is contraindicated (see section  4.3). INHALED BETA AGONISTS  Salmeterol  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration of salmeterol with cobicistat may result in increased plasma concentrations of salmeterol.  Increased plasma concentrations of salmeterol are associated with the potential for serious and/or life -threatening reactions.  
 Co-administration of salmeterol and Tybost is not recommended (see section  4.4). 14 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on drug levels  Mean percent change in AUC, C max, C min Recommendation concerning co-administration with cobicistat 
150 mg and atazanavir or darunavir  HMG  Co-A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS  Fluvastatin  Pitavastatin  Pravastatin  Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentrations of HMG  Co-A reductase inhibitors may be increased when co -administered with cobicistat.  Plasma concentrations of, pitavastatin, fluvastatin or pravastatin are expected to increase when co -administered with atazanavir/cobicistat or darunavir/cobicistat.  
 Caution should be exercised when co-administering cobicistat with pitavastatin.  
 Consult the Summary of Product Char acteristics of atazanavir or darunavir for further information on use in combination with these medicinal products.  Rosuvastatin (10  mg single dose)/Atazanavir (300  mg once daily)/Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)  
 Rosuvastatin:  AUC: ↑ 242%  Cmax: ↑ 958%  Cmin: NC 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔ Cmin: ↔ Plasma concentrations of rosuvastatin are increased when co- administered with atazanavir/cobicistat.  
 When co -administration is necessary, do not exceed 10  mg rosuvastatin daily and clinical monitoring for safety (e.g. myopathy) is recommended.  Rosuvastatin (10  mg single dose)/Darunavir (800 mg once daily)/Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)  
 Rosuvastatin:  AUC: ↑ 93%  Cmax: ↑ 277%  Cmin: NC 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔ Cmin: ↔ Plasma concentrations of rosuvastatin are increased when co- administered with darunavir/cobicistat.  
 It is recommended to start with the lowest recommended dose of rosuvastatin and titrate based on clinical response while monitoring for safety (e.g.  myopathy).  Atorvastatin (10  mg single dose)/Atazanavir (300 mg)/Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)  Atorvastatin:  AUC: ↑ 822%  Cmax: ↑ 1785%  Cmin: NC 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔ Cmin: ↔ Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin are increased when co- administered with atazanavir/cobicistat.  
 Co-administration is not recommended.  Atorvastatin (10  mg single dose)/Darunavir (800 mg)/Cobicistat (150  mg once daily)  
 Atorvastatin:  AUC: ↑ 290%  Cmax: ↑ 319%  Cmin: NC 
 Cobicistat:  AUC: ↔  Cmax: ↔ Cmin: ↔ Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin are increased when co- administered with darunavir/cobicistat.  
 When co -administration is necessary, it is recommended to start with a dose of atorvastatin 10  mg and titrate based on clinical response while monitoring for safety (e.g.  myopathy).  15 Medicinal product by therapeutic areas  Effects on drug levels  Mean percent change in AUC, C max, C min Recommendation concerning co-administration with cobicistat 
150 mg and atazanavir or darunavir  PHOSPHODIESTERASE TYPE -5 (PDE -5) INHIBITORS  Sildenafil  Tadalafil  Vardenafil  Interaction not studied.  
 PDE -5 inhibitors are primarily metabolised by CYP3A.  Co-administration with cobicistat may result in increased sildenafil, tadalafil and vardenafil plasma concentrations, which may result in PDE -5 inhibitor -associated adverse reactions.  Co-administration of Tybost with sildenafil for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension is contraindicated (see section  4.3). 
 Caution should be exercised, including consideration of dose reduction, when co-administering Tybost with tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension.  
 For the treatment of erectile dysfunction, it is recommended that a single dose  of sildenafil no more than 25  mg in 48  hours, vardenafil no more than 2.5 mg in 
72 hours, or tadalafil no more than 10  mg in 72  hours be co -administered with Tybost.  ANTIDEPRESSANTS  Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs)  Trazodone  Interaction not studied.  
 Plasma concentrations of trazodone may be increased when co -administered with cobicistat.  Dose titration may be required for most medicinal products of the SSRI class, when co -administered with Tybost.  IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS  Ciclosporin  Sirolimus  Tacrolimus  Interaction not studied.  
 Concentrations of these immunosuppressants may be increased when co- administered with cobicistat.  Therapeutic monitoring is recommended upon co -administration with Tybost.  NEUROLEPTICS  Perphenazine  Risperidone  Thioridazine  Interaction not studied.  
 Co-administration of neuroleptics with cobicistat may result in increased plasma concentrations of neuroleptics.  For these neuroleptics, consider reducing the dose of the neuroleptic upon co-administration with Tybost.  SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS  Buspirone  Clorazepate  Diazepam  Estazolam  Flurazepam  Zolpidem  Interaction not studied.  
 Concentrations of these sedatives/hypnotics may be increased when co- administered with cobicistat.  For these sedatives/hypnotics, dose reduction may be necessary and concentration monitoring is recommended.  ANTI -GOUT  Colchicine  Interaction not studied.  
 Colchicine plasma concentrations may be increased when co- administered with cobicistat.  Dose reductions of colchicine may be required.  Cobicistat should not be co-administered with colchicine to patients with renal or hepatic impairment.  ND = not determined  NC = not calculated  DOAC  = direct oral anticoagulant  
1  Study was conducted with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate  
 16 