4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Pharmacodynamic interactions  
 Immunosuppressive medicinal products Combination with biologic al DMARDs, biologic al immunomodulators  or other JAK inhibitors has not been studied. In rheumatoid arthritis  and juvenile idiopathic arthritis , use of baricitinib with potent immunosuppressive medicinal products such as azathioprine, tacrolimus, or ciclosporin was limited in clinical studies, and a risk of additive immunosuppression cannot be excluded.  In atopic  dermatitis  and alopecia areata, c ombination with ciclosporin or other potent immunosuppressants has not been studied and is not recommended (see section  4.4). 
 Potential for other medicinal products to affect the pharmacokinetics of baricitinib  
 Transporters  In vitro , baricitinib is a substrate for organi c anionic transporter (OAT)3, P -glycoprotein (Pgp), breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) and multidrug and toxic extrusion protein (MATE)2-K. In a clinical pharmacology study, dosing of probene cid (an OAT3 inhibitor with strong inhibition potential ) resulted in approximately a 2-fold increase in AUC (0-∞) with no change in t max or C max of baricitinib. Consequently, in patients taking OAT3 inhibitors with a strong inhibition potential, such as probenecid, the recommended dose of baricitinib should be reduced by half  (see section  4.2). No clinical pharmacology study has been conducted with OAT3 inhibitors with less inhibition potential. The prodrug leflunomide rapidly converts to teriflunomide which is a weak OAT3  inhibitor and therefore may lead to an increase in baricitinib exposure. S ince dedicated interaction studies have not been conducted, caution should be used when leflunomide or teriflunomide  are given concomitantly  10 with baricitinib . Concomitant use of the OAT3  inhibitors ibuprofen and diclofenac may lead to increased exposure of baricitinib, however their inhibition potential of OAT3 is less compared to probenecid and thus a clinically relevant interaction is not expected . Coadministration of baricitinib with c iclosporin (Pgp/BCRP inhibitor) or methotrexate (substrate of several transporters including OATP1B1, OAT1, OAT3, BCRP, MRP2, MRP3, and MRP4) resulted in no clinically meaningful effects on baricitinib exposure.   
 Cytochrome P450 enzymes In vitro , baricitinib is a cytochrome P450 enzyme ( CYP )3A4 substrate although less than 10 % of the dose is metabolised via oxidation . In clinical pharmacology studies, coadministration of baricitinib with ketoconazole ( strong CYP3A inhibitor) resulted in no clinically meaningful effect on the PK of baricitinib . Coadministration of baricitinib with fluconazole ( moderate CYP3A/CYP2C19/CYP2C9 inhibitor) or rifampi cin (strong CYP3A inducer) resulted in no clinically meaningful changes to baricitinib  exposure . 
 Gastric p 
 H modifying agents  Elevating gastric p 
 H with omeprazole had no clinically significant effect on baricitinib exposure.   Potential for baricitinib to affect the phar macokinetics of other medicinal products  
 Transporters  In vitro , baricitinib is not an inhibitor of  OAT1, OAT2, OAT3, organic cationic transporter (OCT ) 2, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, BCRP , MATE1 and MATE2 -K at clinically relevant concentrations.  Baricitinib may be a clinically relevant inhibitor of OCT1, h owever there are currently no known selective OCT1  substrates for which clinical ly significant interactions might be predicted.  In clinical pharmacology studies there were no clinically meaningful effects on exposure  when baricitinib was coadministered wit h digoxin (Pgp substrate) or methotrexate (substrate of several transporters).  
 Cytochrome P450  enzymes In clinical pharmacology studies, coadministration of baricitinib with the CYP3A  substrates simvastatin, ethinyl oestradiol, or levonorgestrel resulted in no clinically meaningful changes in the PK of  these medicin al products . 
 