4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Bosentan is an inducer of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. In vitrodata also suggest an induction of CYP2C19. Consequently, plasma concentrations of substances metabolised by these isoenzymes will be decreased when Tracleer is co -administered. The possibility 8of altered efficacy of medicinal products metabolised by these isoenzymes should be considered. The dosage of these products may need to be a djusted after initiation, dose change or discontinuation of concomitant Tracleer treatment.Bosentan is metabolised by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. Inhibition of these isoenzymes may increase the plasma concentration of bosentan (see ketoconazole). The influence of CYP2C9 inhibitors on bosentan concentration has not been studied. The combinati on should be used with caution.Fluconazole and other inhibitors of both CYP2C9 and CYP3A4: Co-administration with fluconazole, which inhibits mainly CYP2C9, but to some exten t also CYP3A4, could lead to large increases in plasma concentrations of bosentan. The combination is not recommended. For the same reason, concomitant administration of both a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (such as ketoconazole, itraconazole or ritonavir) and a CYP2C9 inhibitor (such as voriconazole) with Tracleer is not recommended.Cyclosporine A: Co-administration of Tracleer and cyclosporine A (a calcineurin inhibitor) is contraindicated (see section 4.3). When co -administered, initial trough concentrations of bosentan were approximately 30 -fold higher than those measured after bosentan alone. At steady state, bosentan plasma concentrations were 3 -to 4-fold higher than with bosentan alone. The mechanism of this interaction is most likely inhibition of trans port protein -mediated uptake of bosentan into hepatocytes by cyclosporine . The blood concentrations of cyclosporine A (a CYP3A4 substrate) decreased by approximately 50%. This is most likely due to induction of CYP 3A4 by bosentan.Tacrolimus, sirolimus: Co-administration of tacrolimus or sirolimus and Tracleer has not been studied in man but co -administration of tacrolimus or sirolimus and Tracleer may result in increased plasma concentrations of bosentan in analogy to co -administration with cyclosporine A . Concomitant Tracleer may reduce the plasma concentrations of tacrolimus and sirolimus. Therefore, concomitant use of Tracleer and tacrolimus or sirolimus is not advisable. Patients in need of the combination should be closely monitored for adverse events related to Tracleer and for tacrolimus and sirolimus blood concentrations.Glibenclamide: Co-administration of bosentan 125mg twice daily for 5 days decreased the plasma concentrations of glibenclamide (a CYP3A4 substrate) by 40%, with potential signifi cant decrease of the hypoglycaemic effect. The plasma concentrations of bosentan were also decreased by 29%. In addition, an increased incidence of elevated aminotransferases was observed in patients receiving concomitant therapy. Both glibenclamide and bo sentan inhibit the bile salt export pump, which could explain the elevated aminotransferases. This combination should not be used. No drug -drug interaction data are available with the other sulfonylureas .Rifampicin: Co-administration in 9 healthy subject s for 7 days of bosentan 125 mg twice daily with rifampicin, a potent inducer of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4, decreased the plasma concentrations of bosentan by 58%, and this decrease could achieve almost 90% in an individual case. As a result, a significantly reduc ed effect of bosentan is expected when it is co -administered with rifampicin. Concomitant use of rifampicin and Tracleer is not recommended. Data on other CYP3A4 inducers, e.g., carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin and St. John’s wort are lacking, but t heir concomitant administration is expected to lead to reduced systemic exposure to bosentan. A clinically significant reduction of efficacy cannot be excluded.Lopinavir+ritonavir (and other ritonavir -boosted protease inhibitors): Co-administration of bo sentan 
125mg twice daily and lopinavir+ritonavir 400+100 mg twice daily for 9.5 days in healthy volunteers resulted in initial trough plasma concentrations of bosentan that were approximately 48 -fold higher than those measured after bosentan administered alone. On day 9, plasma concentrations of bosentan were approximately 5 -fold higher than with bosentan administered alone. Inhibition by ritonavir of transport protein -mediated uptake into hepatocytes and of CYP3A4, thereby reducing the clearance of 9bosent an, most likely causes this interaction. When administered concomitantly with lopinavir+ritonavir, or other ritonavir -boosted protease inhibitors, the patient’s tolerability of Tracleer should be monitored.After co -administration of bosentan for 9.5 days, the plasma exposures tolopinavir and ritonavir decreased to a clinically non -significant extent (by approximately 14% and 17%, respectively). However, full induction by bosentan might not have been reached and a further decrease of protease inhibitors c annot be excluded. Appropriate monitoring of the HIV therapy is recommended. Similar effects would be expected with other ritonavir -boosted protease inhibitors (see section 4.4).Other antiretroviral agents: No specific recommendation can be made with reg ard to other available antiretroviral agents due to the lack of data. Due to the marked hepatotoxicity of nevirapine, which could add to bosentan liver toxicity, this combination is not recommended.Hormonal contraceptives: Co-administration of bosentan 125mg twice daily for 7 days with a single dose of oral contraceptive containing norethisterone 1 mg + ethinyl estradiol 35 mcg decreased the AUC of norethisterone and ethinyl estradiol by 14% and 31%, respectively. However, decreases in exposure were as m uch as 56% and 66%, respectively, in individual subjects. Therefore, hormone -based contraceptives alone, regardless of the route of administration (i.e.,oral, injectable, transdermalor implantable forms), are not considered as reliable methods of contrac eption (see sections 4.4and
4.6).Warfarin: Co-administration of bosentan 500 mg twice daily for 6 days decreased the plasma concentrations of both S -warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate) and R -warfarin (a CYP3A4 substrate) by 
29% and 38%, respectively. Clinical experience with concomitant administration of bosentan with warfarin in patients with PAH did not result in clinically relevant changes in International Normali sed Ratio (INR) or warfarin dose (baseline versus end of the clinical studies). In addition, th e frequency of changes in warfarin dose during the studie s due to changes in INR or due to adverse events was similar among bosentan -and placebo -treated patients. No dose adjustment is needed for warfarin and similar oral anticoagulant agents when bosenta n is initiated ,but intensified monitoring of INR is recommended, especially during bosentan initiation and the up -titration period.Simvastatin: Co-administration of bosentan 125mg twice daily for 5 days decreased the plasma concentrations of simvastati n (a CYP3A4 substrate) and its active -hydroxy acid metabolite by 34% and 46%, respectively. The plasma concentrations of bosentan were not affected by concomitant simvastatin. Monitoring of cholesterol levels and subsequent dosage adjustment should be co nsidered.Ketoconazole: Co-administration for 6 days of bosentan 62.5 mg twice daily with ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the plasma concentrations of bosentan approximately 2 -fold. No dose adjustment of Tracleer is considered necessary . Although not demonstrated through in vivostudies , similar increases in bosentan plasma concentrations are expected with the other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as itraconazole or ritonavir). However, when combined with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, patients who are poor metabolisers of CYP2C9 are at risk of increases in bosentan plasma concentrations that may be of higher magnitude, thus leading to potential harmful adverse events.Epoprostenol: Limited data obtained from a study (AC -052-356 [BREATHE -3]) in whic h 
10paediatric patients received the combination of bosentan and epoprostenol indicate that after both single -and multiple -dose administration, the C maxand AUC values of bosentan were similar in patients with or without continuous infusion of epoprosten ol (see section 5.1).Sildenafil: Co-administration of bosentan 125mg twice daily (steady state) with sildenafil 80 mg three times a day (at steady state) concomitantly administered during 6 days in healthy volunteers resulted 10in a 63% decrease inthe si ldenafil AUC and a 50% increase inthe bosentan AUC. Caution is recommended in the case of co -administration.Tadalafil: Bosentan (125 mg twice daily) reduced tadalafil (40 mg once p er day) systemic exposure by 
42% and C maxby 27 % following multiple dose co-administration. Tadalafil did not affect the exposure (AUC and C max) of bosentan or its metabolites.Digoxin: Co-administration for 7 days of bosentan 500 mg twice daily with digoxin decreased the AUC, C max and C min of digoxin by 12%, 9% and 23%, respe ctively. The mechanism for this interaction may be induction of P -glycoprotein. This interaction is unlikely to be of clinical relevance.Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
