4.5 Interaction with  other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Capmatinib undergoes metabolism through CYP3A4 enzyme and aldehyde oxidase. The risk of a drug-drug interaction via aldehyde oxidase has not been evaluated as there are no confirmed clinically relevant inhibitors.  
 Effect of other medicinal products on Tabrecta  
 Strong CYP3A inhibitors  In healthy subjects, co -administration of a single 200  mg capmatinib  dose with the strong CYP3A inhibitor itraconazole  (200 mg once daily for 10  days)  increased capmatinib AUC inf by 42% with no change in capmatinib C max compared to administration of capmatinib alone. Patients should be closely monitored for adverse reactio ns during co -administration of Tabrecta with strong CYP3A inhibitors, including but not limited to, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir/ritonavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, posaconazole, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, telithr omycin, verapamil, and voriconazole . 
 Strong CYP3A inducers  In healthy subjects, co -administration of a single 400  mg capmatinib dose with the strong CYP3A inducer rifampicin  (600 mg once daily for 9  days)  decreased capmatinib AUC inf by 67% and decreased Cmax by 56% compared to administration of capmatinib alone. Decreases in capmatinib exposure may decrease Tabrecta anti -tumo ur activity. Co -administration of Tabrecta  with strong CYP3A inducers, including but not limited to, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampicin and St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) , should be avoided. An alternative medicinal product  with no or minimal potential to induce CYP3A shou ld be considered.  
 Moderate CYP3A inducers  Simulations using physiologically -based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models predicted that co-administration of a 400  mg capmatinib dose with the m oderate CYP3A inducer efavirenz  (600 mg daily for 20  days)  would result in a 44% decrease in capmatinib AUC 0-12h and 34% decrease in C max at steady -state compared to administration of capmatinib alone. Decreases in capmatinib exposure may decrease Tabrecta anti -tumo ur activity. Caution should be exercised during co -administrat ion of Tabrecta with moderate CYP3A inducers.  
 Agents that raise gastric p 
 H  Capmatinib demonstrates p 
 H -dependent solubility and becomes poorly soluble as p 
 H increases in vitro . In healthy subjects, co -administration of a single 600  mg capmatinib dose with  the proton pump inhibitor rabeprazole (20  mg once daily for 4  days) decreased capmatinib AUC inf by 25% and decreased C max by 38 % compared to administration of capmatinib alone.  Clinically relevant drug -drug interactions between capmatinib and gastric -acid-reducing agents are unlikely to occur as co-administration of rabeprazole had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure of capmatinib.  
 Effect of Tabrecta on other medicinal products  
 Substrates of CYP enyzmes  Moderate inhibition of CYP1A2 was observed when capmatinib was co-administered with  the sensitive CYP1A2 substrate caffeine. Co -administration of capmatinib (400  mg twice daily) with caffeine increased caffeine AUC inf by 134%. If capmatinib is co -administered with narrow therapeutic index CYP1A2 substrates, such as  theophylline and tizanidine, dose reduction of the co-administered  medicinal product  may be required.  
 Clinically relevant drug -drug interactions between capmatinib and CYP3A substrates are unlikely to occur as co -administration of capmatinib had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure of midazolam (a CYP3A substrate).  
 8 P-glycoprotein (P -gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) substrates  In cancer patients, co -administration of digoxin (P -gp substrate) with multiple doses of capmatinib (400 mg twice daily) increased digoxin AUC inf by 47% and increased C max by 74% compared to administration of digoxin alone. In cancer patients, co -administration of r osuvastatin (BCRP substrate) with multiple doses of capmatinib (400  mg twice daily) increased rosuvastatin AUC inf by 108% and increased C max by 204% compared to administration of rosuvastatin alone. Co -administration of Tabrecta with a P -gp or BCRP substra te may increase the incidence and severity of adverse reactions of these substrates.  Caution should be exercised  during co -administration of Tabrecta with P -gp (digoxin, dabigatran etexilate, colchicine, sitagliptin, saxagliptin and posaconazole) or BCRP (methotrexate, rosuvastatin, pravastatin, mitoxantrone and sulphasalazine) substrates. If capmatinib is co-administered with narrow therapeutic index P -gp or BCRP substrates, dose reduction of the co-administered medicinal product may be required.  
 
