4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Enzymes of the protein catabolism are considered to be involved in the metabolism of ropeginterferon alfa-2b. The involvement  of transport proteins in absorption, distribution and elimination of ropegi nterferon alfa -2b is not known.  Interferon alfa has shown to influence the activity of cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes CYP1A2 and CYP2D6.  
 No interaction studies have been performed  with ropeginterferon alfa -2b. 
 Interaction studies of  other pegylated interferon alfa medicinal products  7 Co-administration of pegylated interferon al fa-2a with telbivudine in patients with hepatitis B increased the risk of developing peripheral neuropathy. A combination therapy with telbivudine  and ropeginterferon alfa -2b is contraindicated ( see section 4.3) .  
 Administration of 180 micrograms of pegylated interferon alfa -2a once weekly for 4 weeks in healthy male subjects did not show any effect on mephenytoin, dapsone, debrisoquine and tolbutamide pharmacokinetics profiles, suggesting that pegylated interferon alfa -2a has no effect on in vivo  metabolic activity of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4, 2C9, 2C19 and 2D6 isozymes. In the same study, a 25% increase in the AUC of theophylline (CYP1A2 substrate) was observed, demonstrating that pegylated interferon alfa -2a is an inhibitor of CYP1A2 activity.  
 Co-administration of pegylated interferon al fa-2b showed no significant interaction with tolbutamide (CYP2C9  substrate), midazolam (CYP3A4 substrate), dapsone (N-acetyltransferase substrate) and modestly increased the exposure of caffeine (CYP1A2 substrate) and desipramine (CYP2D6 substrate).  
 Therefore, care should be taken when ropeginterferon alfa -2b is co-administered with CYP1A2 substrates notably those having a narrow therapeutic margin such as theophylline or methadone. Likewise, caution is recommended with CYP2D6 substrates ( e.g., vortioxetine, risperidone) combined with ropeginterferon alfa -2b. Ropeginterferon alfa -2b may inhibit the activity of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6  and thus may increase the blood concentrations of these medicinal products.  
 No dose adaptions for ropeginterferon alfa -2b should be necessary when concomitantly administered with medicinal products metaboli sed via CYP2C 9/19, CYP3A4 or by N -acetyltransferase.   
 Caution must be exercised when administering ropeginterferon alfa -2b in combination with other potentially myelosuppressive /chemotherapeutic agents.  Narcotics, hypnotics or sedatives must be administered with caution when used concomitantly with ropeginterferon alfa -2b. 
 
