4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 The decrease in  serum proteins caused by pegaspargase  can increase the toxicity of other medici nal products that are protein bound.  
 In addition, by inhibiting pr otein synthesis and cell division, pegaspargase  can disturb the mechanism of action of other substances which require cell division for their effect, e.g., methotrexate.  Methotrexate and cy tarabine can interact  differently  with On caspar : their prior admini stration can increase the action of pegaspargase synergistically. If these substances are given subsequently, the effect of pegaspargase can be weakened antagonistically.  
 Pegaspargase can interfere with metabolism and clearance o f other medicinal products , based on its effects on protein synthesis and hepatic function, as well as from its combined use with other  chemotherapy products  known to interact with CYP enzymes.  
 The use of Oncaspar can lead to fluctuation in  coagulation fa ctors. This can promote th e tendency to bleeding and/or thrombosis. Caution is therefore needed when anticoagulants such as coumarin, heparin, dipyridamole, acetylsalicylic acid or non- steroidal anti -inflammatory me dicinal products  are given concomitantly, or when concomitant chemo therapy regimen including methotrexate, daunorubicin, corticosteroids is administered.  
 When glucocorticoids (e.g.,  prednisone) and pegaspargase are given at the same time, alterations in coagulation parameters (e.g. , fall in fibr inogen and a ntithrombin  III deficiency, ATIII) can be more pronounced.  
 Pegaspargase may increase the risk of glucocorticoid -induced osteonecrosis in children and adolescents when both treatments are given simultaneously, with a higher incidence seen in girls , through a potential increase in exposure of dexamethasone. (see section s 4.4 and 4.8).  
 Immediately preceding or simultaneous tre atment with vincristine can increase the toxicity of pegaspargase. Administratio n of Oncaspar before vincristine may incr ease the neurotoxicity of vincristine. Therefore, vincristine should be given at least 12  hours prior to administration of Oncaspar in order to minimise toxicity. 
 An indirect interaction cannot be ruled out between pegaspargase and oral contraceptives due  to pegaspargase hepatotox icity that may impair the hepatic clearance of oral contraceptives. Therefore, the concomitant use  of Oncaspa r with oral contracepti ves is not recommended. Another method than oral contraception shoul d be used in women of childbea ring potential (see sectio ns 4.4 and 4.6).  
 Simultaneous vaccination with live vaccines may increase the risk of severe infections attr ibutable to the immunosuppressive activity of pegaspargase,  the presence of  the underlying disease and combination chemot herapy (see section  4.4). Vaccination with live vaccines should therefore be given no earlier than 3 months after termination of the entire antileukaemic treatment.  
 