4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
 Co-administration of multiple doses of sitagliptin (50 mg twice daily) and metformin (1 000 mg twice daily) did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of either sitagliptin or metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes.  
 Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with sitagliptin/m etformin hydrochloride have not been performed; however,  such studies have been conducted with the individual active substances, sitagliptin and metformin.  
 Concomitant use not recommended 
 Alcohol Alcohol intoxication is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidosis, particularly in cases of fasting, malnutrition or hepatic impairment.  
 Iodinated contrast agents Sitagliptin/m etformin hydrochloride must be discontinued prior to or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarted until at least 48 hours after, provided that renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be stable (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).  
 Combinations requiring precautions for use 
 Some medicinal products can adversely affect renal function, which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo -oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists and diuretics, especially loop diuretics. When starting or using such products in combination with metformin, close monitoring of renal function is necessary.  
 Concomi tant use of medicinal products that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Close monitoring of glycaemic control, dose adjustment within the recommended posology and changes in diabetic treatment should be considered when such products are co-administered. 
 Glucocorticoids (given by systemic and local routes) beta-2-agonists, and diuretics have intrinsic hyperglycaemic activity. The patient should be informed and more frequent blood glucose monitoring performed, especially at the beginning of treatment with such medicinal products. If necessary, the dose of the anti -hyperglycaemic medicinal product should be adjusted during therapy with the other medicinal product and on its discontinuation.  
 8  ACE -inhibitors may decrease the blood glucose levels. If necessary, the dose of the anti-hyperglycaemic medicinal product should be adjusted during therapy with the other medicinal product and on its discontinuation.  Effects of other medicinal products on sitagliptin 
 In vitro and clinical data described below suggest that the risk for clinically meaningful interactions following co-administration of other medicinal products is low.  
 In vitro studies indicated that the primary enzyme responsible for the limited metabolism of sitagliptin is CYP3A4, with contribution from CYP2C8. In patients with normal renal function, metabolism, including via CYP3A4, plays only a small role in the clearance of sitagliptin. Metabolism may play a more significant role in the elimination of sitagliptin in the setting of severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease (ESRD). For this reason, it is possible that potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (i.e., ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir, cl arithromycin) could alter the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin in patients with severe renal impairment or ESRD. The effects of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors in the setting of renal impairment have not been assessed in a clinical study.  
 In vitro transport studies showed that sitagliptin is a substrate for p-glycoprotein and organic anion transporter-3 (OAT3). OAT3 mediated transport of sitagliptin was inhibited in vitro by probenecid, although the risk of clinically meaningful interactions is considered to be low. Concomitant administration of OAT3 inhibitors has not been evaluated in vivo . 
 Ciclosporin: A study was conducted to assess the effect of ciclosporin, a potent inhibitor of p-glycoprotein, on the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin. Co-administration of a single 1 00 mg oral dose of sitagliptin and a single 6 00 mg oral dose of ciclosporin increased the AUC and Cmax of sitagliptin by approximately 29 % and 68 %, respectively. These changes in sitagliptin pharmacokinetics were not considered to be clinically meaningful. The renal clearance of sitagliptin was not meaningfully altered. Therefore, meaningful interactions would not be expected with other p-glycoprotei n inhibitors.  
 Effects of sitagliptin on other medicinal products 
 Digoxin: Sitagliptin had a small effect on plasma digoxin concentrations. Following administration of 0.25 mg digoxin concomitantly with 100 mg of sitagliptin daily for 10 days, the plasma AUC of digoxin was increased on average by 11 %, and the plasma Cmax on average by 18 %. No dose adjustment of digoxin is recommended. However, patients at risk of digoxin toxicity should be monitored for this when sitagliptin and digoxin are administered concomitantly. 
 In vitro data suggest that sitagliptin does not inhibit nor induce CYP450 isoenzymes. In clinical studies, sitagliptin did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of metformin, glyburide, simvastatin, rosiglitazone, warfarin, or oral contraceptives, providing in vivo evidence of a low propensity for causing interactions with substrates of CYP3A4, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and organic cationic transporter (OCT). Sitagliptin may be a mild inhibitor of p-glycoprotein in vivo. 
 