4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
 Metabolic interactions  
 Systemically available tacrolimus is metabolised by hepatic CYP3A4. There is also evidence of gastrointestinal metabolism by CYP3A4 in the intestinal wall. Concomitant use of medicinal products or herbal preparations known to inhibit or induce CYP3A4 may a ffect the metabolism of tacrolimus and thereby increase or decrease tacrolimus blood levels.  Similarly, discontinuation of such products or herbal preparations may affect the rate of metabolism of tacrolimus and thereby the blood levels of tacrolimus.  
 Pharmacokinetics studies have indicated that the increase in tacrolimus blood levels when co -administered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 is mainly a result of increase in oral bioavailability of tacrolimus owing to the inhibition of gastrointestinal metabolism. Ef fect on hepatic clearance is less pronounced. 
 It is recommended  strongly to closely monitor tacrolimus blood levels under supervision of a transplant specialist, as well as monitor for graft function, QT prolongation (with ECG), renal function and other undesirable effects including neurotoxicity , whenever substances which have the potential to alter CYP3A4 metabolism are used concomitantly, and to adjust or interrupt the tacrolimus dose if appropriate in order to maintain similar tacrolimus exposure (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). Similarly, patients should be closely monitored when using tacrolimus concomitantly with multiple substances that affect CYP3A4 as the effects on tacrolimus exposure may be enhanced or counteracted.   
 Medicinal products which have effects on tacrolimus are listed in the table below. The examples of drug- drug interactions are not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive and therefore the label of each drug that is co -administered with tacrolimus should be consulted for i nformation related to the route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with regards to co- administration.  
 10 Medicinal products which have effects on tacrolimus  
 Drug/Substance Class or Name  Drug interaction effect  Recommendations concerning co -administration  Grapefruit or grapefruit  juice  May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see section  4.4].  Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit juice.  Ciclosporin  May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. In addition, synergistic/additive nephrotoxic effects can occur.  The simultaneous use of ciclosporin and tacrolimus should be avoided [see section 
4.4]. Products known to have nephrotoxic or neurotoxic effects:  aminoglycosides, gyrase inhibitors, vancomycin, sulfamethoxazole + trimethoprim, NSAIDs, ganciclovir, acyclovir, amphotericin B, ibuprofen, cidofovir, foscarnet  May enhance nephrotoxic or neurotoxic effects of tacrolimus.  Concurrent use of tacrolimus with drugs known to have nephrotoxic or neurotoxic effects should be avoided. When co-administration cannot be avoided, monitor renal function and other side effects and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed.  Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors:  antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole , voriconazole), the macrolide antibiotics (e.g., telithromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin, josamycin),  HIV protease inhibitors (e.g. , ritonavir, nelfinavir, saquinavir), HCV protease inhibitors (e.g. , telaprevir, boceprevir, and the combination of om bitasvir and paritaprevir with ritonavir, when used with and without dasabuvir), nefazodone , the pharmacokinetic enhancer cobicistat, and the kinase inhibitors idelalisib, ceritinib  Strong interactions have also been observed with the macrolide antibiotic erythromycin  May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) which requires close monitoring 
[see section 4.4].  Rapid and sharp increases in tacrolimus levels may occur, as early as within 1- 3 days after co -administration, despite immediate reduction of tacrolimus dose. Overall tacrolimus exposure may increase >5 fold. When ritonavir combinations are co-administered, tacrolimus exposure may increase 
>50 fold. Nearly all patients may require a reduction in tacrolimus dose and temporary interruption of tacrolimus may also be necessary.  The effect on tacrolimus blood concentrations may remain for several days after co -administration is completed.  It is recommended that concomitant use should be avoided.
 If co -administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is unavoidable, consider omitting the dose of tacrolimus the day the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is initiated. Reinitiate tacrolimus the nex t day at a reduced dose based on tacrolimus blood concentrations. Changes in both tacrolimus dose and/or dosing frequency should be individualized and adjusted as needed based on tacrolimus trough concentrations, which should be assessed at initiation, monitored frequently throughout (starting within the first few days) and re-evaluated on and after completion of the CYP3A4 inhibitor.
 Upon completion, appropriate dose and dosing frequency of tacrolimus should be guided by tacrolimus blood concentrations. Monitor renal function, ECG for QT 11 Drug/Substance Class or Name  Drug interaction effect  Recommendations concerning co -administration  prolongation, and other side effects closely .  Moderate or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors: antifungal agents  (e.g.,  fluconazole, isavuconazole , clotrimazole, miconazole), the macrolide antibiotics (e.g., azithromycin), calcium channel blockers (e.g., nifedipine, nicardipine, diltiazem, verapamil), amiodarone, danazol, ethinylestradiol, l ansoprazole, omeprazole,  the HCV antivirals elbasvir/grazoprevir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, the CMV antiviral letermovir, and the tyrosine kinase inhibitors  nilotinib, crizotinib
 and imatinib  and (Chinese) herbal preparations  containing extracts of Schisandra sphenanthera  May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see section 4.4] . A rapid increase in tacrolimus level may occur.  Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations frequently, starting within the first few days of co -administration. Reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see section 4.2].  Monitor renal function, ECG for QT prolongation, and other side effects closely.  
 In vitro  the following substances have been shown to be potential inhibitors of tacrolimus metabolism: bromocriptine, cortisone, dapsone, ergotamine, gestodene, lidocaine, mephenytoin, midazolam, nilvadipine, norethisterone, quinidine, tamoxifen  May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see section  4.4].  
 Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if neede d [see section 4.2].  Monitor renal function, ECG for QT prolongation, and other side effects closely.  Strong CYP3A4 inducers:  rifampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine, apalutamide, enzalutamide, mitotane, or St. John’s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) May decrease  tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see section 4.4].  Maximal effect on tacrolimus blood concentrations may be achieved 1 -2 weeks after coadministration. The effect may remain 1 -2 weeks after completion of the treatment.  
 It is recommended that concomitant use should be avoided. If unavoidable, patients may require an increase in tacrolimus dose. Changes in tacrolimus dose should be individualized and adjusted as needed based on tacrolimus trough concentrations, which should be assessed at initiation, monitored frequently throughout (starting wi thin the first few days) and re-evaluated on and after completion of the CYP3A4 inducer.  After use of the 12 Drug/Substance Class or Name  Drug interaction effect  Recommendations concerning co -administration  CYP3A4 inducer has ended, tacrolimus dose may need to be adjusted gradually. Monitor graft function closely.  Moderate CYP3A4 inducers:  metamizole, phenobarbital, isoniazid,  rifabutin, efavirenz, etravirine, nevirapine  Weak CYP3A4 inducers: flucloxacillin  May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see section 4.4].  Monitor tacrolimus whol e blood trough concentrations and increase tacrolimus dose if needed [see section 4.2].
 Monitor graft function closely.  Caspofungin  May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection. Mechanism of interaction has not been confirmed. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase tacrolimus dose if needed [see section 4.2].  Monitor graft function closely. Products known to have high affinity for plasma proteins, e.g.: NSAIDs, oral anticoagulants, oral antidiabetics
 Tacrolimus is extensively bound to plasma proteins. Possible interactions with other active substances known to have high affinity for plasma proteins should be considered . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed [see section 4.2].  
 Prokinetic agents: metoclopramide, cisapride, cimetidine , and magnesium -aluminium-hydroxide  May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrat ions and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation). Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see section 4.2].
 Monitor closely for renal function, for QT prolongation with ECG, and for other side effects.  Maintenance doses of corticosteroids  May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see section 4.4].  Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase tacrolimus dose if needed [see section 4.2]. Monitor graft function closely.  High dose prednisolone or methylprednisolone  May have impact on tacrolimus blood levels (increase or decrease) when administered for the treatment of acute rejection.  Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed .  Direct -acting antiviral (DAA) therapy  May have impact on the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus by changes in liver function during DAA therapy, related to clearance of hepatitis virus.
 A decrease in tacrolimus blood levels may occur.  However, the CYP3A4 inhibiting potential of some DAAs may counteract that effect or lead to increased tacrolimus blood levels.  Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed
 to ensure continued efficacy and safety.  13 Drug/Substance Class or Name  Drug interaction effect  Recommendations concerning co -administration  Cannabidiol (P -gp inhibitor)  There have been reports of increased tacrolimus blood levels during concomitant use of tacrolimus with cannabidiol. This may be due to inhibition of intestinal P -glycoprotein, leading to increased bioavailability of tacrolimus.  Tacrolimus and cannabidiol should be co- administered with caution, closely monitoring for side effects. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust the tacrolimus dose if needed 
[see sections 4.2 and 4.4 ]. 
 Concomitant administration of tacrolimus with a mammalian target of rapamycin (m 
 TOR) inhibitor (e.g., sirolimus, everolimus) may increase the risk of thrombotic microangiopathy (including thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and haemolytic uraemic syndrome ) (see section 4.4).  
 As tacrolimus treatment may be associated with hyperkalaemia, or may increase pre- existing hyperkalaemia, high potassium intake, or potassium- sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, triamterene, or spironolactone) should be avoided (see section 4.4). Care should be taken when tacrolimus is coadministered with other agents that increase serum potassium, such as trimethoprim and cotrimoxazole (trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole), as trimethoprim is known to act as a pota ssium -sparing diuretic like amiloride. Close monitoring of serum potassium is recommended.  
 Effect of tacrolimus on the metabolism of other medicinal products 
 Tacrolimus is a known CYP3A4 inhibitor; thus, concomitant use of tacrolimus with medicinal products known to be metabolised by CYP3A4 may affect the metabolism of such medicinal products. The half-life of ciclosporin is prolonged when tacrolimus is given concomitantly. In addition, synergistic/additive nephrotoxic effects can occur. For these reasons, the combined administration of ciclosporin and tacrolimus is not recommended, and care should be taken when administering tacrolimus to patients who have previously received ciclosporin (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  Tacrolimus has been shown to increase th e blood level of phenytoin.  As tacrolimus may reduce the clearance of steroid -based contraceptives leading to increased hormone exposure, particular care should be exercised when deciding upon contraceptive measures.  Limited knowledge of interactions between tacrolimus and statins is available. Clinical data suggest that the pharmacokinetics of statins are largely unaltered by the co- administration of tacrolimus.  Animal data have shown that tacrolimus could potentially decrease the clearan ce and increase the half- life of pentobarbital and antipyrine.   
 Mycophenolic acid Caution should be exercised when switching combination therapy from ciclosporin, which interferes with enterohepatic recirculation of mycophenolic acid, to tacrolimus, which is devoid of this effect, as this might result in changes of mycophenolic acid exposure. Drugs which interfere with mycophenolic acid's enterohepatic cycle have potential to reduce the plasma level and efficacy of mycophenolic acid. Therapeutic drug monitoring of mycophenolic acid may be appropriate when switching from ciclosporin to ta crolimus or vice versa . 
 Other interactions leading to clinically detrimental effects  
 Immunosuppressants may affect the response to vaccination, and vaccination during treatment with tacrolimus may be less effective. The use of live attenuated vaccines sh ould be avoided (see section  4.4). 
 Paediatric population 
 Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.  14 