4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction Other antiparkinsonian medicinal products : To date there has been no indication of interactions that would pre clude concurrent use of standard antiparkinsonian medicinal products with Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone Orion therapy. Entacapone in high doses may affect the absorption of carbidopa. However, no interaction with carbidopa has been observed with the recomm ended treatment schedule (200 mg of entacapone up to 10 times daily). Interactions between entacapone and selegiline have been investigated in repeated dose studies in Parkinson's disease patients treated with levodopa/DDC inhibitor and no interaction was observed. When used with Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone Orion, the daily dose of selegiline should not exceed 10 mg.Caution should be exercised when the following active substances are administer ed concomitantly with levodopa therapy.Antihypertensives : Symptomatic postural hypotension may occur when levodopa is added to the treatment of patients already receiving antihypertensives. Dose adjustment of the antihypertensive agent may be required.Antidepressants: Rarely, reactions including hypertension an d dyskinesia have been reported with the concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants and levodopa/carbidopa. Interactions between entacapone and imipramine and between entacapone and moclobemide have been investigated in single dose studies in healthy vol unteers. No pharmacodynamic interactions were observed. A significant number of Parkinson's disease patients have been treated with the combination of levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone with several active substances including MAO -A inhibitors, tricyclic a ntidepressants, noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors such as desipramine, maprotiline and venlafaxine and medicinal products that are metabolised by COMT (e.g. catechol -structured compounds, paroxetine). No pharmacodynamic interactions have been observed. How ever, caution should be exercised when these medicinal products are used concomitantly with Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone Orion (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).Other active substances: Dopamine receptor antagonists (e.g. some antipsychotics and antiemetics), phenytoin and papaverine may reduce the therapeutic effect of levodopa. Patients taking these medicinal products with Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone Orion should be carefully observed for loss of therapeutic response.Due to entacapone's affinity to cytoch rome P450 2C9 in vitro (see section 5.2), Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone Orion may potentially interfere with active substances whose metabolism is dependent on this isoenzyme, such as S -warfarin. However, in an interaction study with healthy volunteers, en tacapone did not change the plasma levels of S -warfarin, while the AUC for R -warfarin increased on average by 18% [CI 9011–26%]. The INR values increased on average by 13% 8[CI 906–19%]. Thus, a control of INR is recommended when Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapo ne Orion is initiated for patients receiving warfarin.Other forms of interactions: Since levodopa competes with certain amino acids, the absorption of Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone Orion may be impaired in some patients on high protein diet.Levodopa an d entacapone may form chelates with iron in the gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone Orion and iron preparations should be taken at least 2 –3 hours apart (see section 4.8).In vitro data: Entacapone binds to human albumin bindi ng site II which also binds several other medicinal products, including diazepam and ibuprofen. According to in vitro studies, significant displacement is not anticipated at therapeutic concentrations of the medicinal products. Accordingly, to date there h as been no indication of such interactions.
