4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and  other forms of interaction  
 Quizartinib and its active metabolite AC886 are primarily metabolised by CYP3A in vitro. 
 Effect of other medicinal products on VANFLYTA  
 Strong CYP3A /P-glycoprotein  (P-gp) inhibitors  Co-administration of ketoconazole (200  mg twice daily for 28  days), a strong CYP3A/P -gp inhibitor, with a single dose of VANFLYTA increased quizartinib maximum  plasma concentration ( Cmax) and area under the curve ( AUCinf) by 1.17-fold and 1. 94-fold, respectively , and decreased AC886 C max and AUCinf by 2.5-fold and 1.18-fold, respectively, compared to VANFLYTA alone. At steady state, quizartinib exposure (C max and AUC 0-24h) was estimated to be increased by 1.86-fold and 1.96-fold, 7 respectively, and AC886 exposure (C max and AUC 0-24h) decreased by 1.22-fold and 1.17-fold, respectively. Increased quizartinib exposure may increase the risk of toxicity . 
 The dose of VANFLYTA should be reduced as shown in the table below if concomitant use with strong CYP3A inhibitors cannot be avoided . For more details regarding dose adjustments, see  Table 3 in section 4.2. 
 Full dose  Dose reductions for concomitant use with strong CYP3A inhibitors  
26.5 mg 17.7 mg 35.4 mg 
53 mg 26.5 mg 
 Examples of strong CYP3A /P-gp inhibitors include  itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin,  nefazodone,  telithromycin and antiretroviral medic inal products  (Certain medicines used to treat HIV may either increase the risk of side effects (e.g ., ritonavir) or reduce the effectiveness (e.g. , efavirenz or etravirine) of V ANFLYTA) . 
 Moderate CYP3A inhibitors  Co-administration of fluconazole (200  mg twice daily for 28  days), a moderate CYP3A inhibitor , with a single dose of VANFLYTA  increased quizart inib and AC886 Cmax by 1.11-fold and 1.02-fold, respectively, and AUCinf by 1.20-fold and 1.14-fold, respectively. This change was not considered clinically relevant. No dose modification is recommended . 
 Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers  Co-administration of efavirenz ( lead-in treatment at 600 mg once daily for 14  days), a moderate CYP3A inducer, with a single dose of VANFLYTA decreased quizartinib C max and AUC inf by approximately 1.18-fold and 9.7 -fold, respectively, compared to VANFLYTA alone. The C max and AUCinf of AC886 decreased by approximately 3.1 -fold and 26 -fold, respectively  (see section  5.2). 
 Decreased quizartinib exposure may lead to reduced efficacy.  Co-administration of VANFLYTA  with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers  should be avoided . 
 Examples of strong CYP3A4 inducers include apalutamide, carbamazepine, enzalutamide, mitotane, phenytoin, rifampicin and certain herbal medicinal products such as St. John’s Wort (also known as Hypericum perforatum ). Examples of moderate CYP3A4 inducers include efavirenz, bosentan, etravirine, phenobarbital and primidone.  
 QT interval prolonging medicinal products  Co-administration of VANFLYTA with other medicin al products that prolong the QT  interval may further increase the incidence of QT  prolongation. Examples of QT prolonging medicinal products include but are not limited to antifungal azoles, ondansetron, granisetron, azithromycin, pentamidine, doxycycline, moxifloxacin, atovaquone, proch lorperazine and tacrolimus.  Caution should be used when co-administering medicin al products that prolong the QT  interval with VANFLYTA  (see section 4.4). 
 Gastric acid reducing agents  Proton pump inhibitor lansoprazole decreased quizartinib C max by 1.16-fold and AUC inf by 1.05-fold. This decrease in quizartinib  absorption was not co nsidered clinically relevant.  No dose modification is recommended . 
 Effect of VANFLYTA on other medicinal products  
 P-glycoprotein (P -gp) substrates  Co-administration of quizartinib and dabigatran etexilate (a P -gp substrate) increased total and free dabigatran C max by 1.12-fold and 1.13-fold, respectively, and increased total and free dabigatran AUCinf by 1.13-fold and 1.11-fold, respectively  (see sectio n 5.2). Quizartinib is a weak P -gp inhibitor, 8 and no dose modification is recommended when P -gp substrates are co -administered with VANFLYTA . 
 Breast cancer resistance  protein (BCRP) substrates  In vitro data indicate that quizartinib is an inhibitor of BCRP. The clinical relevance is currently not known. Caution should be used when quizartinib is co -administered with medicinal products that are substrates of BCRP . 
 
